### Nested Data Structures
#### Referencing Collection Elements
Referencing nested arrays is done the same way you'd reference any other element.  Referencing an element within a nested array is done by chaining references.
```ruby
arr = [[1, 2], [3, 4]]
arr[0][1] # => 2
```

#### Updating Collection Elements
Modifying elements in a nested array works just like modifying a normal array.  The only difference to remember is which array or element is targeted.

- Remember that `Array#[]=` is a mutating method, not assignment.  As such, it will behave slightly differently in certain situations (such as method definition and invocation).
```ruby
arr = [[1, 2], [3, 4]]
arr[1][1] = 'four'
arr # => [[1, 2], [3, 'four']]
arr[1] = 'goodbye nested array'
arr # => [[1, 2], 'goodbye nested array']
```

#### Other Nested Structures
Like arrays, hashes can also be nested.
```ruby
hash_in_arr = [{ one: 1 }, { three: 3 }]
hash_in_hash = { a: { zero: 0 }, b: { one: 1  two: 2 }}

hash_in_arr[0][:two] = 2 # => [{:one=>1, :two=>2}, {:three=>3}]
hash_in_hash[:b][:three] = { won: 1, to: 2, thre: 3 } # => {:a=>{:zero=>0}, :b=>{:one=>1, :two=>2, :three=>{:won=>1, :to=>2, :thre=>3}}}
```

#### Variable Reference for Nested Collections
If a variable is set to `collection1`, then the variable is assigned as an element in `collection2`, both the variable and `collection2` are referencing the collection object- `collection1`.  This means, if either the variable or `collection2` are used to mutate `collection1`, the change will be reflected in any other object referencing `collection1`.
```ruby
a = [1, 3]
b = [2]
arr = [a, b]
arr # => [[1, 3], [2]]

a[1] = 5
arr # => [[1, 5], [2]]
```
This is an example of how variables are simply references to objects and not values themselves.

#### Shallow Copy
`#dup` and `#clone` are methods that create a copy of an object.  This is useful when an object needs to mutated without mutating the original object.  However, these methods create a *shallow copy*.  This means they are creating copies of the references for the other objects, such as nested collections.  This in turn means a *shallow copy*'s other objects can be mutated.
```ruby
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"]
arr2 = arr1.dup
arr2[1].upcase!

arr2 # => ["a", "B", "c"]
arr1 # => ["a", "B", "c"]
```
```ruby
arr1 = ["abc", "def"]
arr2 = arr1.clone
arr2[0].reverse!

arr2 # => ["cba", "def"]
arr1 # => ["cba", "def"]
```
When copying collection objects, it's important to consider whether the collection object or its nested objects are being mutated.
```ruby
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"]
arr2 = arr1.dup
arr2.map! do |char|
  char.upcase
end

arr1 # => ["a", "b", "c"]
arr2 # => ["A", "B", "C"]
```
```ruby
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"]
arr2 = arr1.dup
arr2.each do |char|
  char.upcase!
end

arr1 # => ["A", "B", "C"]
arr2 # => ["A", "B", "C"]
```

#### Freezing Objects
The main difference between `#dup` and `#clone` is that `#clone` preserves the frozen state of the object.
```ruby
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"].freeze
arr2 = arr1.clone
arr2 << "d"
# => RuntimeError: can't modify frozen Array
```
```ruby
arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"].freeze
arr2 = arr1.dup
arr2 << "d"

arr2 # => ["a", "b", "c", "d"]
arr1 # => ["a", "b", "c"]
```
It's important to note that `#freeze` only freezes the object it's called on.  This means that if an object contains other objects, the other objects won't be frozen when their container object is frozen.
```ruby
arr = [[1], [2], [3]].freeze
arr[2] << 4
arr # => [[1], [2], [3, 4]]
```
This also applies to strings within an array.
```ruby
arr = ["a", "b", "c"].freeze
arr[2] << "d"
arr # => ["a", "b", "cd"]
```

#### Deep Copy
Ruby doesn't have a built-in way to create a deep copy or deep freeze objects within objects.  There are some ways to implement such functionality, but that is for another time (patience young padawan!).
Regardless, it is important to be aware of what level within a collection that actions are taking place.
