### Sorting
Sorting is another way to work with collections.  Typically, sorting is performed on arrays.  They are naturally ordered, so this action is easily accessible.

- Although `String` objects use an index, they don't have access to any sorting methods.
- Since Ruby 1.9, `Hash` objects can now be sorted.  Still, hash values are accessed via their keys, so sorting isn't typically required.

#### What is Sorting?
Sorting is the order of the elements within a collection.

Using simple loop algorithms, sorting can be done.  That said, creating such structures can get complex and lengthy.  This is where a couple helpful methods step in: `#sort` and `#sort_by`.

For example:
```ruby
[8, 3 ,7 ,5, 3, 1].sort # => [1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9]
```

Using `#sort` eliminates the need to write a complex and rather lengthy chunk of code.

#### Comparison
Sorting is performed by comparing the collection's elements with each other and ordering them based on the result of said comparisons.

Comparison seems rather straightforward when considering individual values.  It can become much trickier when comparing collections.  Collections don't necessarily contain the same types of objects.  To handle this, `<=>` is used.

#### The `<=>` Method
`#<=>` has the stellar nickname, the 'spaceship' operator.  This method compares two objects of the same type and returns a `-1`, `0`, or `1` depending on whether the first object is less than, equal to, or greater than the second object.  `nil` is returned if the two objects cannot be compared.
```ruby
1 <=> 2 # => -1
2 <=> 2 # => 0
2 <=> 1 # => 1
2 <=> 'a' # => nil
'a' <=> 'b' # => -1
'b' <=> 'b' # => 0
'b' <=> 'a' # => 1
```
`#sort` uses the return value of `#<=>` to order a collection of elements.  If `#<=>` returns `nil`, `#sort` returns an argument error.
```ruby
[1, 'e'].sort # => comparison of Integer with String failed (ArgumentError)
```
With the understanding of how `#sort` relies on `#<=>`, it becomes clear that looking at Ruby Docs for `#sort` may not be sufficient.  Having a firm understanding of how `#<=>` is required.  Two considerations in particular become clear:

- Does the object type have access to `#<=>`?
- If yes, what is the specific implementation for said object type?

String objects can only be compared with other String objects.

- Strings are compared using a String character's position in the [ASCII table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII#Code_chart).

```ruby
'#' <=> '1' # => -1
'1' <=> '?' # => -1
'?' <=> 'A' # => -1
'A' <=> 'a' # => -1
'a' <=> 'b' # => -1
```
As you can tell from the above example, it's not always obvious which character comes first in the ASCII character order.  A helpful way to determine their order is by calling `#ord` on a string character, which returns the decimal number.
```ruby
'r'.ord # => 114
`}'.ord # => 125
' '.ord # => 32
```
General rules to remember are:

- Uppercase letters come before lowercase letters (uppercase are smaller)
- Digits and most punctuation come before letters (digits and most punctuation are smaller)
- There is an *extended* ASCII table containing accented and other characters - which comes after the main ASCII table.

Numeric object classes share the same implementation and are comparable with each other.
Array objects have a unique implementation.

- The first pair of elements in two array objects are compared.  If the return value is `1`, `-1`, or `nil`, then the method stops and returns the value.
- If every pair of elements return `0`, then the arrays' size are compared.

#### The `sort` Method
`#sort` can be called with or without a block.

- `#sort` always returns an array.
- Without a block, `#sort` sorts its caller with a default implementation of `a <=> b` (sorts smallest to largest value).
- With a block, `#sort` offers more control over how elements are sorted.  `#sort` will sort elements based on the block's return value (`-1`, `0`, `1`, or `nil`).


`String#sort`:
```ruby
['arc', 'bat', 'cape', 'ants', 'cap'].sort # => ['ants', 'arc', 'bat', 'cap', 'cape']
```
Ruby Docs for `String#<=>` doesn't explicitly state how multi-character String objects are compared.  However Ruby Docs' given example offers an implied answer.

- The String objects' individual characters are compared based on their first characters.
- Unless the pair of characters returns `0`, `#<=>` returns the value.
- Else the method iterates over the next characters in the strings.
- If the method reaches the end of one string but the other string has another character, then it is evaluated as `'' <=> 'character' # => 1`.

`Array#sort`:
```ruby
[['a', 'cat', 'b', 'c'], ['b', 2], ['a', 'car', 'd', 3], ['a', 'car' 'd']].sort
# => [['a', 'car', 'd'], ['a', 'car', 'd', 3], ['a', 'cat', 'b', 'c'], ['b', 2]
```
- Upon first glance, one will notice conflicting types of objects and might expect `Array#sort` to return `nil`.  However this never comes in to play with our example.
  - Because there are no other arrays starting with an element `b`, `2` is not compared and thus not evaluated by `#sort`.
  - Another potential error is with the array containing `3`.  Its array and another array shares an element with the same value, however the arrays are not the same size.  Thus `3` is not evaluated.

`Hash#sort`:

- *`Hash#sort` is inherited through the `Enumerable` module and is not listed under the `Hash` class in the Ruby Docs.*

#### The `sort_by` Method
`#sort_by` is similar to `#sort`, but is typically the preferred method for calling a block.

- *`#sort_by` require a block.*
- `#sort_by` always returns an array.

`Hash#sort_by`

- `Hash#sort_by` require two arguments for its block (key, value).
- *`Hash#sort_by` is inherited through the `Enumerable` module and is not listed under the `Hash` class in the Ruby Docs.*
- Can use `Array#to_h` to convert `Hash#sort_by`'s return array back into a Hash.
- Symbol and String objects can be compared with each other.
  - `Symbol#<=>` first passes its objects to `#to_s` before comparing them.
```ruby
people = { Kate: 27, john: 25, Mike: 18 }
people.sort_by |_, age|
  age
end
# => [[:Mike, 18], [:john, 25], [:Kate, 27]]
people.sort_by do |name, _|
  name.capitalize
end
# => [[:john, 25], [:Kate, 27], [:Mike, 18]]
```

#### Other Methods Which Use Comparison
There are other comparison methods available in Ruby (all of which implement the `#<=>` method).

- `#min`
- `#max`
- `#minmax`
- `#min_by`
- `#max_by`
- `#minmax_by`
