### Collection Basics

#### Element Reference:
A collection is a container for individual elements.  Examples of this are String, Array, and Hash objects.

- It's important to note that `String#[]` & `Array#[]` are actually methods (their aliases are `String#slice` & `Array#slice`).  These use element assignment and are not mutating the caller, but are mutating the caller's elements.
- Technically `String` objects aren't collections, though they have access and assignment features which behave similarly.  For example, `String#[]` references the substring and returns a new string (a copy) or nil.  This works similarly to `Array#[]`.  We will discuss differences in the next section.

For example:
```ruby
char1 = str[2]                     # => "c"
char2 = str[2]                     # => "c"
char1.object_id == char2.object_id # => false  # a real collection would return `true`
```

#### Array Element Reference:
Arrays are unique because they are ordered (by index) collections.

- A difference between `String` and `Array` objects is element referencing.  Using the `#slice` or `#[]` method for a single element in a collection, the difference becomes clear.  `String#[]` will return a new string, `Array#[]` will return the element itself.
	- This is a subtle but important difference to note.  What and how methods return values affect the way we can interact with said methods and values.

#### Hash Element Reference:
Hashes are a collection structure that- instead of using integer-based index, pair two objects, a key and a value.  The key or value can be any type of Ruby object.

- Note that hash keys must be unique.  If there are multiple keys with the same name, the latter will override the former.

#### Element Reference Gotchas:
- Out of Bounds Indices: 
  - Both arrays and strings can be thought of as indexed collections.
  - Referencing an out-of-bounds index will return `nil` for both objects.
    - For a string, it's clear that a return value of `nil` means out of bounds index.
    - For an array, a return value of `nil` is not so clear.  An array will return `nil` if the referenced element does not exist (out of bounds) or if the element is `nil` (array elements can be anything, including `nil`).
	    - There is another method that works similarly and enforces an array's boundaries- `Array#fetch`.  Where `Array#[]` returns `nil` for out of bound elements, `Array#fetch` will throw an `IndexError` exception.
	    - Most Ruby code will use `Array#[]`, so it's important to consider whether `nil` is actually an element or Ruby saying we've reached beyond an array boundary.

- Negative Indices:
  - When a negative index is given, start with the last element and parse right-to-left.

- Invalid Hash Keys:
  - Hashes also have a similar method to array and string objects, `Hash#[]`.  This method is not index-based though, rather it is key-based.
  - Like Arrays, `Hash#[]` also suffers from the same out-of-bounds return value, `nil`.  And just like for Arrays, `Hash#fetch` will throw a `KeyError` if the key doesn't exist.

#### Conversion:
- Strings and arrays pair well together due to their zero-based-index behaviors.  Methods like `String#chars` and `Array#join` help facilitate this.
- Hashes also share some ease of conversion between arrays with `Hash#to_a` and `Array#to_h`.

#### Element Assignment:
- String Element Assignment:
  - This will mutate the string's element and modify the string object, but the string object itself will remain unmutated (retaining its object id).

- Array Element Assignment:
  - This functions similarly to string element assignment.

- Hash Element Assignment:
  - This functions similarly to string and array element assignment, however a hash key must be given instead of a index number.
