### Methods

In this section, `each`, `select`, and `map` will be discussed in more detail.

As a reference, here's a template of a basic looping structure:
```ruby
numbers = [1, 2, 3]
counter = 0

loop do
  break if counter == numbers.size
  puts numbers[counter]
  counter += 1
end
```

#### `each`

- `each` is effectively a simple loop method.  It's such a common task that Ruby made a method for it.
  - It's important to note that `each` returns self.  *Methods don't explicitly return their block (unless specifically designed to).*

#### `select`

  - `select` does exactly what one would expect, it evaluates a collection and selects elements from it.  It chooses which elements to select by passing each element into its block.  For each iteration, if the last line of code in the block evaluates as *truthy*, the element is selected.  If the block evaluates as *falsy*, that element isn't selected.
    - This means that `select` will not necessarily return a collection with the same number of elements.
    - This is particularly important to remember with `puts` or other expressions that tend to return `nil`.  A block trailing `puts` will always return `nil` and in this case would result in `select` always returning `nil`.
  - `select` doesn't modify or mutate the elements.  So regardless of what its block does, the return value only cares about whether the last line of the block is `truthy` or `falsy`.  `select` will always return the original values of the selected elements.
  - Alias: `filter`, `find_all`
  - Important to note that this method will return the same collection as its caller (Ruby Documentation states the method will return an array, however this isn't true when the caller is a hash).

#### `map`

- `map` functions similarly to `select` with one dramatic difference, transformation instead of selection.
- Instead of evaluating whether the return value of the block is `truthy` or `falsy`, `map` uses the return value to create a new collection.
  - This means that `map` will return a collection with the same the number of elements as its caller.
