### Practice Problems: Methods and More Methods
The following are helpful questions to consider:

- How does the method treat the block's return value?
- What is the return value of the method?
- How can you use the Ruby Docs to learn more about a method?
- Is the method destructive?

#### Practice Problem 1
```ruby
[1, 2, 3]
```
Because `Array#select` has been passed a block, it will return a new array.  Since the block's last line of code is `'hi'`, it will return truthy on every iteration.  As a result of this, `#select` will add every element from the caller to its return's new array.

#### Practice Problem 2
`Array#count` uses its block's return value to count its caller's elements via an Integer object.  If the element's iteration of the block evaluates as truthy, the return value is plus one.

This can be found by looking at [`Array#count`'s method signatures and the description](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Array.html#method-i-count) for how it handles a block.

#### Practice Problem 3
```ruby
[1, 2, 3]
```
`Array#reject` selects its caller's elements based on the truthiness of its block.  If an iteration is falsy, the element is added to the return array.  Another way to think about this method is that it returns all the elements that its block rejects (aka returns falsy).

In this example, the block consists of a `puts` statement.  Because `puts` always returns `nil`, every element will be returned in an array.

#### Practice Problem 4
```ruby
{'ant'=>'ant', 'bear'=>'bear', 'cat'=>'cat'}
```
`Enumerable#each_with_object` uses its caller to pass its block's return to its argument.  The block defines two parameters, the first references the collection's elements and the second references the collection itself.

In this example, the argument is a hash.  The block uses the caller's elements to define the hash key through substring referencing and the value.

#### Practice Problem 5
```ruby
{a: 'ant'}
```
`Hash#shift` mutates its caller by removing and returning the caller's first element as a 2 element array object.

We can find this out by looking up the method in the Ruby Docs and reading the [`Hash#shift`'s signatures and description](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Hash.html#method-i-shift).

#### Practice Problem 6
```ruby
11
```
This problem uses method chaining.  The first method, `Array#pop`, mutates its caller by removing and returning the last element.  This is passed to the next method, `String#size`.  This method counts the number of substrings within the caller and returns an `Integer`.

#### Practice Problem 7
```ruby
true # return value of the block as well as #any?
```
`Array#any?` returns a boolean based on how its block evaluates (returns `true` if any iteration returns `true`).  The block returns a boolean value on each iteration as well as outputting each of the caller's elements.

In this example, `Array#any?` returns `true` because the last line of its block returns `true` on the first iteration.  It's important to understand that the block will short-circuit after the first return `true` (this is not explicitly stated in the Ruby Docs).  As a result, the output will be `1`.

#### Practice Problem 8
`Array#take` takes an `Integer` argument to select the integer number of elements from its caller and returns said elements in a new array.  As a result, this method is not destructive.  This is explicitly stated in the [`Array#take`'s method signatures](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Array.html#method-i-take).

#### Practice Problem 9
```ruby
[nil, 'bear']
```
Though not explicitly stated, `Enumerable#map` is available to `Hash` objects through inheritance, This can be confirmed by inspecting the [method's examples in the Ruby Docs](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Enumerable.html#method-i-map).

There are two important points to take note of:

One is that this method returns an array and not a hash as some might expect.

Second is why the return array's first value is `nil`.  Because this method transforms, the same number of elements will be returned in the new array.  When the first element, `'ant'`, is passed into the block, `nil` is returned.  The block returns `nil` because `if` statements will return `nil` if none of its conditions are met.  In other words it returns its implicit `then` statement or `nil`.

#### Practice Problem 10
```ruby
# 2
# 3
# => [1, nil, nil]
```
`Array#map`'s block has a condition to handle each of the caller's elements.  However when `2` and `3` are passed into it, the `puts` returns `nil`.  As a result, `nil` is in the method's return array.
