### More Methods

#### `Enumerable#any?`

- This method is inherited by `Array` and `Hash` (they function the just as the original `Enumerable` method).
- An important note for this method is that there are two return values to be aware of, the return value of the block and that of the method.
  - If any iteration of the block returns `true`, then the method also returns `true`.
  - Obviously the `Hash` method requires two parameters for a block.

#### `Enumerable#all?`

- This method is inherited by `Array` and `Hash` (though `Hash#all?` does not appear on Ruby Docs' Hash webpage, the docs for `Enumerable#all?` shows reference of it being used on a hash object.
- It functions nearly identically to `any?` except that every iteration of the block must return `true` in order for the method to also return `true`.

#### `Enumerable#each_with_index`

- This method is inherited by `Array` and `Hash` (like `#all?`, this method cannot be found in the Ruby Docs when looking under `Array#each_with_index` & `Hash#each_with_index`.  Instead the method is found under `Enumerable#each_with_index` and shows reference of it being used on a array and hash objects.
- `#each_with_index` functions nearly identically to `#each` except that the index is also made available.
  - This means, the method will always return the caller object and the block's return value is ignored.
- In the block, the first parameter is always the element, the second parameter is the element's index.
- When a hash is passed in as the caller, the element in the block is passed as an array with two elements (key & value).

#### `Enumerable#each_with_object`

- This method is inherited by `Array` and `Hash` (like `#all?`, this method cannot be found in the Ruby Docs when looking under `Array#each_with_object` & `Hash#each_with_object`.  Instead the method is found under `Enumerable#each_with_object` and shows reference of it being used on an array and hash objects.
- This method takes an argument and a block:
  - The argument is a collection object (`[]` or `{}`) and is used for the method's return value.
  - The block also takes two arguments:
    - The first block argument is the current element.
    - The second block argument is a variable reference of the collection object passed to the method outside of the block.
  - Like with `#each_with_index`, `#each_with_object`turns hash elements into arrays when passed into its block.  (Or you can pass the key and value into the block using parentheses instead of the first block argument) [Ruby Docs, Enumerable#each_with_object](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Enumerable.html#method-i-any-3F):
    - Ruby Docs describing a block iterating over a hash:`{|element, h| k, v = *element; h[v] = k }`
    - LS describing a block iterating over a hash: `{ |(key, value), hash|  hash[value] = key }`
      - As you can see, there are different approaches to the syntax, but the results are the same).

#### `Enumerable#first`

- This method is inherited by `Array` and `Hash` (though `Hash#first` does not appear on Ruby Docs' Hash webpage, the docs for `Enumerable#first` shows reference of it being used on a hash object.
- This method can take one argument and is relatively straightforward.
- If no argument is given, it returns the first element of a collection.
- If an integer argument (`n`) is given the first `n` elements are given.
  - If `n` is greater than the collection's size, all elements are returned.
  - If `n` is zero, `nil` or an empty collection is returned.
- Hashes:
  - Calling `#first` on a hash doesn't quite make sense, but is possible since Ruby 1.9.
  - Hashes are typically unordered, but since Ruby 1.9 a hash's order is preserved according to the order of insertion.
  - This method returns an array, so using this method on a hash will return a nested array.

#### `Enumerable#include?`

- This method takes an argument and returns a boolean.
- When called on a hash, it only checks the keys (`Hash#include?` is an alias for `Hash#key?`, `Hash#has_key?`, and `Hash#member?`.  Ruby convention is to use `#key?` as it makes the intention is more clear`.

#### `Enumerable#partition`

- This method is inherited by `Array` and `Hash` (though `Array#partition` & `Hash#partition` do not appear on Ruby Docs' Array & Hash webpage, the docs for `Enumerable#first` shows reference of it being used on an array & hash object.
- This method accepts a collection and splits it into two nested collections.  The elements are separated based on the block's boolean return value.
  - Hashes are also returned as nested arrays.

#### Summary

- Reading documentation on methods are typically split into the following sections:
  - The method signatures (indicating if it takes arguments and/or a block, and what it returns).
  - A brief description of how it is used and special cases.
  - Code examples.
- The important aspects to understand are:
  - Whether the method takes an argument and/or block.
  - How the block's return value is handled.
  - What the method returns.
