### Pass by Reference vs Pass by Value
This topic is centered on the difference between pass by reference and pass by value behaviors.  Languages have different approaches.  Some are more strictly a *'pass by value'* language, or more so a *'pass by reference'*.  For this reason, it's important to understand the differences and how they relate to the way expressions/statements are evaluated.

#### What does pass by 'value' mean?

- **Pass by value** means passing on a copy of the object, or value.
  Because reassigning an object's value within a method doesn't affect the object's value outside of the method, many Rubyists insist that Ruby is a 'pass by value' language.

Here's an example:
```ruby
def change_name(name)
  name = 'bob'      # does this reassignment change the object outside the method?
end

name = 'jim'
change_name(name)
puts name           # => jim
```

#### What does pass by 'reference' mean?

- **Pass by reference** means passing on the pointer, or referencing the original object.
  If Ruby was strictly a *'pass by value'* language, we wouldn't be able to mutate objects within a method's scope and affect the same local variable in the outer scope- which is obviously possible.

Here's an example:
```ruby
def cap(str)
  str.capitalize!   # does this affect the object outside the method?
end

name = "jim"
cap(name)
puts name           # => Jim
```

#### What Ruby does?

The reality is that Ruby exhibits a combination of both behaviors.  It's been called *pass by value of the reference* or *call by sharing*.  Regardless of the label, it's important to remember the following.

- When an operation within the method mutates the caller, it will affect the original object.

#### This naturally leads to the question, which methods mutate the caller?

Unfortunately this isn't so easy to distinguish.  This is one of those things we have to slowly discover and test beforehand if we are unsure.  There are a lot of destructive methods in the Ruby core library which end with `!`, however that's just naming convention and isn't 100% accurate.

#### Variables as Pointers:


- [Variable References and Mutability of Ruby Objects](https://launchschool.com/blog/references-and-mutability-in-ruby)
- [Mutating and Non-Mutating Methods in Ruby](https://launchschool.com/blog/mutating-and-non-mutating-methods)
- [Objects Passing in Ruby - Pass by Reference or Pass by Value](https://launchschool.com/blog/object-passing-in-ruby)

---

### Variable References and Mutability of Ruby Objects





---

### Ruby Object's Mutating and Non-Mutating Methods
#### Mutating and Non-Mutating Methods:

- When considering whether methods are mutating or not, it's important to remember that methods can mutate both the caller and its arguments.  Being aware of which are or aren't mutated is essential.

#### Non-Mutating Methods:

- Most methods don't mutate their arguments or callers.  Some mutate their caller, but few mutate their arguments.
- All methods are non-mutating with respect to immutable objects.  This is because classes of immutable objects simply don't have any mutating methods defined.
- Examples of non-mutating object classes are `Boolean`, `Integer`, `Float`, and `Nil`.

#### Assignment is Non-Mutating:

- Assignment, `=` is not actually a method in Ruby, but it acts like a non-mutating method and should be treated accordingly.
- As we learned in the previous article, assignment simply binds an object to a variable.  In other words, it creates a pass by reference relationship.

Let's look at the following code:
```ruby
def fix(value)
  value.upcase!
  value.concat('!')
  value
end
s = 'hello'
t = fix(s)
```

- What are the values of `s` and `t`?
	- At first glance, we might think they have different values, `s = 'hello'` and `t = 'HELLO!'`.  However this is incorrect.
	- First, the object `s` is referencing is passed to `fix()` and assigned to its parameter, `value`.
	- Second, `value` is mutated by `upcase!()`.  Because `value` is assigned to reference the same object `'hello'` as `s`, `s` also reflects this change.
	- Third, `value` is then called on by another mutating method, this time `concat()`.  As before, `value` is still referencing the same object as `s` and thus the mutation is seen by `s`.
	- Last, the return value of `fix()` is assigned to `t`.  The return value is `value`, which is still assigned to the same String object as `s`.  So both `s` and `t` end up referencing/bound/assigned to the same String object, `'HELLO!'`.

This can be observed more transparently by outputting the object id.  Let's take a look:
```ruby
def fix(value)
  puts "initial object #{value.object_id}"
  value = value.upcase!
  puts "upcased object #{value.object_id}"
  value.concat('!')
end
s = 'hello'
puts "original object #{s.object_id}"
t = fix(s)
puts "final object #{t.object_id}"

# original object 70349169469400
# initial object 70349169469400
# upcased object 70349169469400
# final object 70349169469400
```

- The object id never changed because every method continues to reference the same object, simply mutating it along the way.

Let's modify the code a bit and see what happens:
```ruby
def fix(value)
  puts "initial object #{value.object_id}"
  value = value.upcase
  puts "upcased object #{value.object_id}"
  value.concat('!')
end
s = 'hello'
puts "original object #{s.object_id}"
t = fix(s)
puts "final object #{t.object_id}"

# original object 70349169469400
# initial object 70349169469400
# upcased object 70349169435840
# final object 70349169435840
```

- As you can tell by reading the object ids, the referenced object changes.
	- First, on line 3, `value` is called on by `upcase()` instead of `upcase!()`.  `upcase()` doesn't mutate its caller, but instead returns a new object reference.
	- On the same line, the new object reference is then assigned to `value`.
	- Second, on line 4, `concat()` is now calling `value` with a different object id than `upcase()`.
	- Lastly, `fix()` passes the return value of `concat()` to `t` through assignment.
	- This results in `s` and `t`are referencing/bound/assigned to different objects.

- It's important to identify how assignment and non-mutating/mutating methods interact.  It's not always so obvious.

As an example, examine the following method definition:
```ruby
def fix(value)
  value = value.upcase!
  value.concat('!')
end
=> :fix

s = 'hello'
=> "hello"

t = fix(s)
=> "HELLO!"
s
=> "HELLO!"
```

- Do you see why `s` and `t` have the same output?
	- The mutating method `upcase!()` is again used on `value`.  So even though there is reassignment occurring, `value` is being reassigned to mutated object instead of a new object.

#### Mutating Methods:

- A method is said to mutate with respect to an argument or its caller if it mutates its value in the process.

#### Indexed Assignment is Mutating:

- This can be a confusing concept.  Index assignment can be used by `String`, `Hash`, and `Array` objects.

Here's a reminder of what that looks like:
```ruby
str[3] = 'x'
array[5] = Person.new
hash[:age] = 25
```

- Looks a lot like assignment, right?
- And as we just learned, assignment is non-mutating, right?
- In this case, assignment is mutating. :dizzy_face:

Let's take a look at an example:
```ruby
a = %w(a b c d)
a.insert(4, 'e')
```

- Does this mutate the `Array` object `a` is pointing to (thus maintaining the same object id) or reassign `a` to a new `Array` object (with new object id)?
	- `a` is mutated and maintains the object id.
- If `b = a` and `a` is modified in a similar manner, will `b` reflect the change?
	- Yes, `b` reflects this mutation and also maintains the same object id.  This is due to them pointing to the same `Array` object.
	- The `Array` object itself is mutated, however the specific element is being re/assigned.  So the elements' object ids may change independently of the array's object id.

- Variables `a` and `b` can both be pointed to the same `Array` object, thus have the same object id.
```ruby
a = %w(a b c d)
b = a
a.object_id # => 260
b.object_id # => 260
```
- You can then reassign an element within the `Array` object using either variable and the other variable will reflect this modification.  Their object ids will not change.
```ruby
a[0] = 'z'
a.object_id # => 260
b.object_id # => 260
```
- You can mutate an element, reassign an element, or assign a new element to the referenced array.  None of these actions reassign the variable to a new array object, so it maintains the same object id.  They can be considered mutating the `Array` object *(though modifying might be a better term for this)*.

  - *Re/assigning the element will result in a new object id for the element.*
  - *Mutating the element will maintain the object id for the element.*
```ruby
a.append('y') # assigning a new element
a.object_id # => 260
b.object_id # => 260

a[1] << '42' # => mutates the element, but not the array.
a.object_id # => 260
b.object_id # => 260
```

#### A mental model that seems to work is as follows:

- An array is like a limitless ice tray.  When we pick an ice tray and start using it, it's always the same ice tray.  We can add, remove, or modify the ice cubes within it.  However the ice tray is still the same one.  Additionally, we can copy the ice tray and create a new, identical but unique ice tray.


#### Concatenation is Mutating:

It's important to note which methods are mutating to collections and which aren't.  For example, `#<<` is mutating while `+=` is non-mutating.

So using `+=` will result in a new collection object id while `#<<` maintains the same object id.

#### Setters as Mutating:

Setters, like indexed assignment, can be confused for assignment.  Just like indexed assignment, setters are methods which can mutate the state of an object (though they can be defined to be non-mutating).  Setters usually mutate or reassign with an instance variable.

Here's an example of setter invocation:
```ruby
person.name = 'Bill'
person.age = 23
```

- This is a topic that will be discussed more later.

#### Refining the Mental Model:

- The fact that Ruby methods can mutate arguments suggests situations of pass by reference.  Ruby also has plenty of methods that return a copy of a value, which indicates pass by value.
- The important point to remember is whether a method mutates its arguments or caller.  This indicates whether it is passing a reference or value.
- While the `!` is a useful signal to whether a method is mutating or not, it is not a definitive marker.  It can be a way to mark the difference between similar methods, but shouldn't be overly relied on.
- Reassignment can be confused for a number of other actions including index reassignment and setter assignment.  Moreover, reassignment can be misleading when used in conjunction with mutating methods.

- The take away is:
	- Ruby *tends* to use pass by value for immutable methods/objects and pass by reference for mutable methods/objects.
	- Ruby's assignment doesn't mutate objects, but binds them to new objects.  However setter methods and indexed assignment do mutate objects.

---

### Object Passing in Ruby - Pass by Reference or Pass by Value
#### What is Object Passing?

Object passing is simply what it sounds like, passing an object to/from something.

- The object can be an argument such as an object literal (like a variable) or an expression (which will be evaluated and reduced down to an object).
- A 'caller' (sometimes called a 'receiver') of a method call is an object called by a method.  This object can be considered an implied argument.  With this understanding, callers are also relevant to object passing.
  - `'This string is a caller for the following method'.split()`
- Return values are passed from methods back to the caller, so it is also relevant to object passing.
- Blocks, procs, and lambdas are other forms of an object (these will be discussed on another day).
- Operators such as `+`, `*`, `[]`, and `!` are methods (here we can also include `=` which *acts* like a method).  This means the operands are arguments.  And obviously the operators/operands combined are expressions which return a value.  So the operators have arguments and return values.  This means operators use object passing just like a *normal* method.

- To sum this up more simply:
	- Objects can be literals, named objects (variables and constants), or complex expressions.
	- Methods can include, methods, blocks, procs, lambdas, and operators.
	- Arguments can include actual arguments, callers (of a method), operands, or a return value.

#### Evaluation Strategies:

- An evaluation strategy is a plan of action for managing how objects are passed.  It determines how expressions are evaluated and what a method can do with the resulting objects.  Every programming language uses an evaluation strategy.	
- Ruby uses *strict evaluation* exclusively.  Strict evaluation strategies are the most common type of strategy.  With strict evaluation, every expression is evaluated and converted to an object before it is passed along to a method.
- The two most common strict evaluation strategies are *'pass by value'* and *'pass by reference'*.  We will begin referencing these two strategies collectively as *'object passing strategies'*.

#### Why is the Object Passing Strategy Important?

- Most programming languages which implement strict evaluation use pass by value as a default.  Most of those languages also have pass by reference abilities.  Very few languages use pass by value or pass by reference in a black and white sense.
- Understanding which strategy is used and when is crucial to understanding what happens to an object that is passed to a method.

#### Pass by Value:

- When using pass by value, a copy of an object is created and passed around.  Because it is a copy and not the original, the original is never modified.  Passing immutable values, like numbers, in Ruby acts like pass by value.

#### Pass by Reference:

- When using pass by reference, a reference is passed around.  The reference is an alias of an object.  In other words, the alias is establishing a link between an argument and an original object.  Both the argument and original object refer to the same location in memory.  If you mutate the argument, you also mutate the object, and vice versa.

It's References All the Way Down:

- As we've discussed previously, Ruby variables don't contain objects.  The variables are merely pointing to an object.  In other words, they pass references to an object.  ... scared what follows?

For example, take a look at the following code:
```ruby
def print_id number
  puts "In method object id = #{number.object_id}"
end
value = 33
puts "Outside method object id = #{value.object_id}"
print_id value

# Outside method object id = 67
# In method object id = 67
```

- You might have assumed the object ids would be different.
- Even if we pass a literal to a method, Ruby first converts that literal to an object, then creates an internal reference to the object.  These literal references can be considered anonymous, or unnamed, references.
- Our example clearly shows the object referenced by `value` is passed into the method `print_id()`.  In other words, the immutable object which as we have already concluded uses pass by value, is using pass by reference.

- **Mental models aren't set in stone.  They're meant to be refined and redefined with new information.  Mental models use the Bayesian Theory to determine how things work.**

- So what's the lesson, what's the take away?  (Don't mess with Maui when he's on a breakaway!)
	- Pass by reference isn't limited to mutating methods.  A non-mutating method can use pass by reference as well, but not necessarily to mutate an object.

#### Pass by Reference Value:

- After the last point made, many people will come to the conclusion that Ruby is pass by reference.  They're right.
- Ruby is pass by reference with a caveat- assignment.  If Ruby were a strict pass by reference language, assignment would pass a mutating action.
	- If you remember, assignment doesn't mutate.  It changes which object is being referenced/pointed to/bound to/assigned to by the variable.
	- Within a method, assignment can change the binding between a variable and an object.  However that change doesn't affect the original arguments (the variable/object binding in the outer scope).
		- If the objects are mutable, then the values can be modified.  However they will be the same objects.  The references themselves are immutable (doesn't create a new object outside the method).
- When thinking how assignment works, it seems like Ruby is again pass by value.  It appears that Ruby is making a copy of the value (object) and is passing a copy of the object (argument) into a method.  The reference allows for the original object to mutated (if a mutating method is used), however since the reference is a copy, the argument cannot be reassigned (reassignment would only reassign the copy).

- Putting that all together and we get phrases like *pass by reference value* and *pass by value of the reference*.  They mean the same thing.  In short, it just means Ruby passes copies of the references.

Let's see if I can explain ***pass by reference value*** in a more straightforward manner:

  - Ruby uses pass by value to pass a copy of a referenced object into a method via parameters.

- Data assigned to a variable: *assignment, operates like pass by reference without mutating.*
- Data is assigned to the method's parameter: *pass by value.*
- Parameter is processed via a mutated or non-mutated procedure: *pass by reference or value.*

  Analogies:

  - A useful analogy for how assignment works regarding pass by reference value is by checking out a book at a library:
    - Say we went to a library looking for a book titled, `calvin_&_hobbes1`.
      A. *This is an example of assignment.*
      B. *The book (value) is titled (assigned) `calvin_&_hobbes1` (variable).*
    - Next we use an online catalog on the library's computer to locate `calvin_&_hobbes1` and find a webpage with directions to the library book.
  Despite going to the gym earlier, we agree that taking the desktop computer isn't practical.  Instead we share the webpage with our phone.
      A. *This is an example of passing an argument into a method via pass by reference value.*
      B. *We copy (pass by value) the website url (pass by reference) and send it to our phone (assignment).*
*The library's computer (external variable or data structure) and our phone (method parameter) are directed (referencing) to the same webpage (variable) with directions (referencing) the same book (value).*
          - Because both the library's computer and phone are pointing to the same webpage, modifying the webpage on either would be reflected on the other device.

  - Here's another analogy:
    - Let's say we find `calvin_&_hobbes1`, but we want to circle all the comics with Spaceman Spiff.
      - We could use a permanent marker and mutate the original book.
        - *This is an example of pass by reference.*  Anyone who checks out this book from the library will see our mutations.
      - Or we could photocopy the whole book, then mark up the copy.
        - *This is an example of pass by value.*  Only our copy of the book will be mutated.
      - In either case, we are using pass by reference to access and assign the value from `calvin_&_hobbes1`.

Other possible analogies might be:

- Taking a picture of the wifi at a cafe.
- Taking a picture of a book's name.

- Here's my attempt at an analogy:
	- Say we have a library of Calvin and Hobbes books.  One book is listed in a catalogue with the variable name `calvin_01`.  This is assignment.
	- Next I ask the librarian to take `calvin_01` and print me a copy with all the pages Suzy is in it.  The method passes a reference of `calvin_01` to the method.
	-  The method creates a copy of the reference with pass by value.  The method then uses the copied reference to create a new book with pages Suzy is in it.
	- If the method were to mutate the object referenced, it would be akin to the librarian marking up the Calvin and Hobbes book.

#### Final Mental Model:

- Pass by reference value is probably the most accurate answer.  But it's a hard answer to accept when learning Ruby and, for the moment, isn't particularly helpful when trying to understand what will happen if a method mutates an argument.
- Pass by reference is accurate as long as you account for assignment and immutability.
- 'Ruby acts like pass by value for immutable objects, pass by reference for mutable objects' is a reasonable answer when learning about Ruby, so long as you keep in mind that Ruby only *appears* to act like this.
