### Precedence
An expression in Ruby is determined by **operator precedence**.  It's a set of rules that dictate how Ruby determines what operands each operator takes.
	
- Operands are the values, or results of evaluating expressions, used by an operator.

<https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.1.0/doc/syntax/precedence_rdoc.html>

- Most operators are '*binary*', meaning they take two operands.  However there are also '*unary*' and '*ternary*' operators, taking one or three operands respectively.
```ruby
2 + 5            # Binary: Two operands (2, 5)
!true            # Unary: One operand (true)
value ? 1 : 2    # Ternary: Three operands (value, 1, 2)
```

- When considering the expression `3 + 5 * 7`, there are 2 operators and 3 operands.  However from the point of view of each operator, they only have 2 operands.  So one operator must give priority to the other.  The question then becomes, what is the order of precedence for these operators.  Who gets the use the middle operand first?
- Operators with higher precedence are prioritized over those with lower precedence.  In the given expression `*` has a higher precedence than `+`, therefore it will use the middle operand first.  The result is the expression looks more like `3 + (5 * 7)`.  So instead of `+` using `5`, it will use the return of `*` (or `5 * 7`).
- As you can see, parentheses override the default evaluation order.  You could say parentheses have the highest level of precedence (though this is just a way to help you think about this concept, there's no documentation that will say this).

#### Same Level of Precedence:

- When two operators have the same level of precedence, they are generally evaluated from left-to-right (in rare cases, right-to-left).
- There are some exceptions to the left-to-right evaluation process.
	- `||` and `&&` can use their short circuit feature to skip their second operand.
	- Ternary operators can skip expressions based on it's first expression's boolean return.

	- `=` is an example of an operator that evaluates right-to-left.

#### Evaluation Order:

- As you can see, the evaluation process is much more complicated than simply which operator takes precedence.  You also have to consider left-to-right evaluation, right-to-left evaluation, short-circuiting expressions, and ternary expressions.

Ready for a doozy?  Consider the following code:
```ruby
def value(n)
  puts n
  n
end

puts value(3) + value(5) * value(7)
# 3
# 5
# 7
# 38
```

- Confused why `value(3)` is output before `value(5)` and `value(7)`?  Let's break it down.
	- You might think this should be evaluated `value(5)`, then `value(7)`, then `5 * 7`, then `value(3)`, then `3 + 35`, then `puts 38`.
	- Method invocations are not values.  The operators doesn't know what the values of those methods are until the methods have been evaluated.  And in an arithmetic expression, Ruby goes through the expression left-to-right and evaluates everything it can without calling the operators.  After everything else has been evaluated, then it will use the order of precedence on the operators.

Here's an example of right-to-left evaluation, which occurs with assignment:
```ruby
a = b = c = 3
puts a if a == b if a == c
```

- Strictly speaking, these are bad examples of Ruby code and should only be used as a learning experience.

Let's look at how ternary and short-circuit operators work:
```ruby
3 ? 1 / 0 : 1 + 2  # raises error ZeroDivisionError
5 && 1 / 0         # raises error ZeroDivisionError
nil || 1 / 0       # raises error ZeroDivisionError
```

- The short-circuiting and ternary's skipping features haven't been activated in these expressions.

Let's adjust them so the short-circuit and skipping features are activated:
```ruby
nil ? 1 / 0 : 1 + 2  # 3
nil && 1 / 0         # nil
5 || 1 / 0           # 5
```

- As you can see, `1 / 0` is no longer evaluated.

#### Diving Deeper:

Precedence works with methods and blocks as well.  Let's take a look at the following code:
```ruby
array = [1, 2, 3]

array.map { |num| num + 1 }       # => [2, 3, 4]
p array.map { |num| num + 1 }     # outputs [2, 3, 4]
                                  # => [2, 3, 4]

array.map do |num|
  num + 1
end                               #   => [2, 3, 4]
p array.map do |num|
  num + 1                         #  outputs # <Enumerator: [1, 2, 3]:map>
end                               #  => # <Enumerator: [1, 2, 3]:map>
```

- The last expression with `p array.map do... end` outputs/returns something entirely different.
- It turns out `{}` has a slightly higher precedence than `do...end`.
- `do...end` has the lowest level of precedence, so its bound less tightly to `array.map` than the binding between `p` and `array.map`.
	- This means `array.map` is first passed to `p`, outputting/returning `<Enumerator: [1, 2, 3]: map>`.  Next, `do...end` is passed to `p`.  However `p` doesn't accept a block.
		- Any method that doesn't accept a block will simply ignore the block.

To visualize this a little more clearly, let's look at the code with parentheses:
```ruby
array = [1, 2, 3]

p(array.map) do |num|
  num + 1                           #  <Enumerator: [1, 2, 3]:map>
end                                 #  => <Enumerator: [1, 2, 3]:map>

p(array.map { |num| num + 1 })      # [2, 3, 4]
                                    # => [2, 3, 4]
```

- The parentheses are used to highlight the natural order of precedence.


#### Ruby's `tap` method:

This is an `Object` instance method.  `Object.tap`

- It's an extremely useful debugging tool.  It passes the calling object into a block and returns the block.  To put it another way, it's a way of outputting/returning the caller and it can be used to check/debug objects/methods intermittently.

Here's an example of it being used:
```ruby
(1..10)                 .tap { |x| p x }   # 1..10
 .to_a                  .tap { |x| p x }   # [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
 .select {|x| x.even? } .tap { |x| p x }   # [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]
 .map {|x| x*x }        .tap { |x| p x }   # [4, 16, 36, 64, 100]
```

- As you can see, each object/method is output.  This makes tracing an error much easier.

#### Parentheses:

Don't rely on precedence rules when mixing operators.  Sure, sometimes it won't look as pretty.  But sooner or later you're going to how these rules work and introduce a bug into your code.  You and others may not have an easy time sorting out the order of precedence and that may be a nightmare you want to avoid.
