### Coding Tips
#### Dramatic Experience & Retaining Knowledge:

Feel the burn.  If you spend hours debugging, even if it's on one particular piece of code or error, it's time well spent.  Going through that period of angst will help sear into your mind the concept that evaded you.  There are a lot of rules, concepts, and syntax to remember and a lot of them are being introduced at once.  It can feel like a firehose of information, so it's normal to have a lot of burn marks- especially in the beginning.  Embrace them as the time is well spent learning.

#### Naming Things:

Don't bother so much on saving characters by creating short variable/method names.  Instead choose descriptive names.

- Naming with one or few characters can result in confusion.  You don't want to have to pause while reading your code, just to remember what each variable/method is.
- Naming based on the response can lead to situations where another response might occur, and suddenly the name doesn't fully describe the object.  Try not to hardcode possible response values into the name.
- A good approach to naming is to consider the variable/method's intent.  This is a way of 'future-proofing' the name.
- Small blocks of code are more lenient to less descriptive names due to their smaller scope.  But why focus on that when you can be reenforcing better habits.

#### Naming Conventions:

- Although Ruby is flexible and allows various naming constructs to be valid, it's best not to abuse this privilege.  Better is to stick to Ruby conventions so your code is using the same format as others.  This makes it easier for others to read your code, and vice versa.
	- `CamelCase` is used for naming classes.
	- `UPPERCASE` is used for naming constants.
	- `snake_case` is for naming everything else.

#### Mutating Constants:

- Another example of Ruby's flexible is the ability to reassign/mutate constants.  This should be avoided as it makes the concept of a constant pointless.  `CONSTANTS` should always be immutable.

#### Methods:
Extracting code/logic into a method is a good habit and instinct.  However methods are best when they do one thing and their responsibility is limited.  This implies short, sub 15 line code.

#### Here's some guidelines which may be helpful:

- Don't display something to the output and return a **meaningful** value.  Since Ruby always returns a value, the key here is that the return value shouldn't be the intent of the method.
- Determine whether the method's goal is the return value or the side effects (of the return value).  Doing both can lead to confusion.  Will you remember that the method does two things?
  Maybe, but it's easier to know all methods do one thing.  KISS.
- Appropriate method names use a certain kind of logic in Ruby.  For instance, it's implied that a method called `total` would return a value.  So a Rubyist wouldn't name a method `return_total`.  Also, `total` doesn't logically suggest any side effects.  So a method named thusly shouldn't have side effects.

Here's an example of an appropriate use for the method `total`:
```ruby
def total(cards) # [1, 2, 3]
end
# => Integer
```

- As you can see, this method takes a collection and returns an integer.  If this method also mutated the array, we would always have to remember that the method does two things.  For this reason, it is better to have and stick to a naming convention which helps us reliably predict the method's outcome simply by reading their names.

#### Methods should be at the same level of abstraction:

The gold standard for methods is to take some input and return an output.  A method should be able to copy/paste into irb and be testable.  In other words, a method should work in isolation.  This makes them easier to work with from a reliability point of view.  We can assume they work without considering how they're implemented.  At that point, we can compartmentalize our attention and focus on different aspects of our code.

Another important consideration is the level of abstraction of the names.  They should all have the same naming logic.  Take the following as an example:

- `deal()`
- `hit()`
- `stay()`
- `iterate_through_cards()`

- The last method is on a different level of abstraction.  The first three use a single verb to convey what the method does.  They also convey meaning through the language of the game.  The last one conveys the method's implementation.

#### Method names should reflect mutation:

Methods that mutate should reflect that in their name.  This means we should assume such methods don't return a relevant value.  Let's look at an example:
```ruby
def update_total(total, cards)
end
# total is changed
```

- The word update in `update_total` implies a mutation to it's parameters.  So we wouldn't expect this method used like: `total = update_total(total, cards)`.  `update_total` should mutate on its own and either `total` or `cards` would automatically have been modified.  Also we shouldn't assume there would be a useful return value from `update_total`.

**Here's an analogy:**
- ***Methods should be like LEGO blocks.  On their own, each is simple and straightforward in design.  Together they can build larger, more interesting structures.***

If a method's logic is more complex than you'd like, perhaps it's a sign that you don't understand the problem well yet.  A useful analogy here is writing.  The first draft in writing is rarely the last.  Sometimes it is helpful to simply write it all out and give it a second pass to clean up or reorganize things.  At the end, you can polish your work into something more concise and improve its readability.

#### Displaying Output:

There will inevitably be methods simply for displaying things, such as the following:
```ruby
def welcome
  puts "welcome"
end
```

`welcome` is a bit vague and leads us to wonder if it will return or output something.  To help clarify the matter, outputs can be consistently prefixed with a standard logic such  as:

- `print_`
- `say_`
- `display_`

It's important to only use this logic when outputting something to the screen.  Including return or mutating behaviors can cause confusion when debugging and assuming a method is only outputting something.


#### Misc. Tips:

- Don't prematurely exit the program.  A program should probably only have one exit point.  This can help reduce random exits.
- Remember the 2 space indentation.  Violating this will burn a Rubyist's eyes like staring at pizza falling face side down into the sand.  FOR SHAME!
- Name methods with future consideration in mind.  Will you remember the inside joke in a month?  Will your colleagues get it?  Probably not.  KISS.  At the same time, make sure the names are descriptive so we don't have to read the method to understand its purpose.
  For example, which one would you choose for a method that finds an ace in array of `cards`?
	- `find_ace` or `find_ace_from_cards`
	- The ideal would be `find_ace`.  Of course you'd find the ace from `cards`, where else?
- Learn when to use `do/while` vs `while` loops.

Check this code out and figure out the issue:
```ruby
while answer.downcase != 'n' do
  puts "Continue? (y/n)"
  answer = gets.chomp
end
```

- This will throw an exception because `answer` is undefined.

It must be initialized first:
```ruby
answer = ''
while answer.downcase != 'n' do
  puts "Continue? (y/n)"
  answer = gets.chomp
end
```

- This works, but there's a slightly better implentation.

Check this out:
```ruby
loop do
  puts "Continue? (y/n)"
  answer = gets.chomp
  break if answer.downcase == 'n'
end
```

- This implementation is a little bit more readable.  And actually, `answer` could be removed if `gets.chomp` is put into the `if` statement like: `break if gets.chomp.downcase == 'n'`.

#### Truthiness:

Because of how expressions can be 'truthy' or 'falsy' without explicitly being `true` or `false`, Ruby can compare expressions directly.  This quality is inherent due to the simple rule:

- In Ruby, everything is truthy except `nil` and `false`.
	- This means `if user_input != nil` can be refactored to `if user_input`.  `nil` will always evaluate as a falsy expression, so the former expression is a double negative.
- Remember to watch out for reassignment vs comparison.  A single `=` can make the world of a difference.  Such is the life of syntax in code.  Careful with those sausages you call fingers!

#### Approach to Learning:

Remember that learning to program isn't a straight forward experience.  You don't master A, then master B, then C, etc.  Each new concept or topic can be more or less daunting.  There will inevitably be topics that will need to be circled back to and others that cause so much trouble that they will burn into your mind.  After enough burns, those will be the lessons you learn best.  Embrace the pain and the slow learning process.  It's actually fun to learn, and learning to code in particular.  There's a reason you're on this path, right?
