### Coding Tips #2
#### Using new lines to organize code:

- Rubocop is very picky about this for a reason.  It's not only Ruby convention (maybe it's programming convention), but its a visual cue for organizational purposes.  It makes the code more readable for future you and others.

Look at  the following code and try to understand why it's split into its sections:
```ruby
name = ''

puts "Enter your name: "
loop do
  name = gets.chomp
  break unless name.empty?
  puts "That's an invalid name. Try again:"
end

puts "Welcome #{name}!"
puts "What would you like to do?"
```

- It's split into the following snippets of code:

  1. variable initialization
  2. user input and validation
  3. using the variable

#### Should a method return or display?

*Understand if a method returns a value, or has side effects, or both.*

- *Side effects* is referring to displaying something as output or mutating an object.

- In general, its bad form and can cause problems if a method both returns/outputs value and has side effects.  Avoid writing any methods like such.

#### Name methods appropriately:

- This has been mentioned before, and it's mentioned again because of how important this is.  Choose good method (and variable) names.  If a method outputs/displays something, choose a name such as `display_total` or `print_message`.  This makes understanding the method's purpose clear when scanning.

  `If you find yourself constantly looking at a method's implementation every time you use it, it's a sign that the method needs to be improved.`

- It's easier to name a method that does only one thing.  Have a convention for methods that output, return, and mutate.
	- `print_answer`, `answer`, `answer!`

#### Don't mutate the caller during iteration:

- Iterating over collections to output and mutate elements is fine.  But when you start mutating the caller itself (adding to or removing elements), weird things can happen.

  Here's an example:
```ruby
words = %w(scooby doo on channel two)
words.each {|str| words.delete(str)}
puts words.inspect        # => ["doo", "channel"]
```

- Were you expecting an empty array to be returned?

`Don't mutate a collection while iterating through it.`

#### Variable shadowing:

- Variable shadowing is when a variable on an inner scope shares the same name as a variable on the outer scope.  This results in the inner scope not having access to the variable on the outer scope.

- Having the same name for variables used in different methods' inner scopes is fine.  They won't interact together.

#### Don't use assignment in a conditional:

- As a general rule, its best to avoid using `==` and `=` together in the same line of code.  It becomes difficult to know which was intended.
```ruby
# bad

if some_variable = get_a_value_from_somewhere
  puts some_variable
end

# good

some_variable = get_a_value_from_somewhere
if some_variable
  puts some_variable
end
```

- Both snippets work, but the former can be confusing to others.  People might not be sure if that's a bug or on purpose.  Why introduce that chance?
- In the wild, you might find experienced Rubyists ignoring this sage advice.  Here's a common example:
```ruby
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

while num = numbers.shift
  puts num
end
```

- `Array#shift` removes and returns the first element within the array, returning `nil` if the array is empty.  As a result, `num = numbers.shift` acts as a loop termination condition.  However, the same issue is still there.  Other coders may not be confident whether this is intentional or a bug.  To avoid confusion, wrap the expression in parentheses.  This is a clear signal of an intentional expression.
```ruby
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

while (num = numbers.shift)
  puts num
end
```

#### Use underscore for insured parameters;

- Using an underscore, `_`, is a good way of signaling parameters that are unused in a block.
```ruby
names.each_with_index do |_, idx|
  puts "#{idx+1}. got a name!"
end
```

#### Gain experience through struggling:

- Beginners often have feelings:
	- Want to know the "best" or "right" way to do something, and want to learn the "best practice".
	- Too much time being wasted on debugging and not doing things correctly the first time.

- Learning 'best practices' right off the bat isn't very helpful unless you know *why* they are best practices.
- Struggling helps you appreciate why best practices are optimal.  Struggling isn't necessarily time wasted, it's gaining experience and wisdom- sometimes with weird issues.
