##### Question 1
If we have this code:

```ruby
class Greeting
  def greet(message)
    puts message
  end
end

class Hello < Greeting
  def hi
    greet("Hello")
  end
end

class Goodbye < Greeting
  def bye
    greet("Goodbye")
  end
end
```

What happens in each of the following cases:

case 1:

```ruby
hello = Hello.new
hello.hi
```

case 2:

```ruby
hello = Hello.new
hello.bye
```

case 3:

```ruby
hello = Hello.new
hello.greet
```

case 4:

```ruby
hello = Hello.new
hello.greet("Goodbye")
```

case 5:

```ruby
Hello.hi
```

Answer:

case 1:

- A `Hello` object is initialized to the local variable `hello`.  Then the instantiated object is used to call the instance method `hi`, which outputs `"Hello"`.

  This occurs because `Hello` inherits the instance method `greet` from its superclass `Greeting`.  The `Hello` instance method `hi` can then access `greet`.

case 2:

- After `hello` is initialized to a `Hello` object, the object is used to call the instance method `bye`.  `bye` is not defined within `Hello`, so Ruby uses its method lookup path to next check the superclass `Greeting`.  The method is still not found, so Ruby continues up the heirarchal ladder, checking modules and superclasses in the given order through `Hello.ancestors`.  This ends with unsuccessfully searching in `BasicObject`.  As a result, the `NoMethodError` exception is raised.

case 3:

- Once again, `hello` is initialized to a `Hello` object.  Then the object is used to invoke the method `greet`, which raises an `ArgumentError` exception a message somewhere along the lines of *"Wrong number of arguments given.  Expecting 1, given 0."*.
  Because `Hello` is inheriting from `Greeting`, the instance method `greet` is available to all `Hello` objects.  However this method requires an argument passed to it.

case 4:

- Again, `hello` is initialized to a `Hello` object.  The object is used to invoke the method `greet`, which is passed a `String` argument.  `"Goodbye"` is output and `nil` is returned.

case 5:

- The class `Hello` is used to invoke `hi`.  This raises a `NoMethodError` exception.  This is because `hi` is an instance method and can only be called on  by instaniations of the `Hello` class, or any class sublcassing from `Hello`.

---

##### Question 2
In the last question we had the following classes:

```ruby
class Greeting
  def greet(message)
    puts message
  end
end

class Hello < Greeting
  def hi
    greet("Hello")
  end
end

class < Greeting
  def bye
    greet("Goodbye")
  end
end
```

If we call `Hello.hi` we get an error message.  How would you fix this?

Answer:

There are multiple ways to resolve this.  The best fix would depend on the use case.  However here are some more obvious choices:

- `Hello.new.hi`

  If the goal is simply to invoke `hi` once, then it isn't necessary to assign the `Hello` object to a variable for further use.

- `hello = Hello.new; hello.hi`

  If the goal is to say `"Hello"` more than once, assigning a `Hello` object to a local variable would prevent the need to create a new `Hello` object every time.

- `def self.hi; Greeting.new.greet("Hello"); end`

  If the goal is to make `hi` available without instantiating a `Hello` object, the instance method `hi` could be turned into a class method.  The method `greet` must also be adjusted as it is also an instance method.

---

##### Question 3
When objects are created they are a separate realization of a particular class.

Given the class below, how do we create two different instances of this class with separate names and ages?

```ruby
class AngryCat
  def initialize(age, name)
    @age = age
    @name = name
  end

  def age
    puts @age
  end

  def name
    puts @name
  end

  def hiss
    puts "Hissss!!!"
  end
end
```

Answer:

Invoking `AngryCat.new` twice (with 2 arguments passed) will create two unique instances of `AngryCat`.  These objects would be unique, regardless of whether arguments passed to them during instantiation are unique or the same.  This can be confirmed by calling `object_id` on both objects (or by invoking `equal?` with one object passed as a caller and the other as an argument).

---

##### Question 4
Given the class below, if we created a new instance of the class and then called `to_s` on that instance we would get something like `#<Cat:0x008ff234f23b90>`.

```ruby
class Cat
  def initialize(type)
    @type = type
  end
end
```

How could we go about changing the `to_s` output on this method to look like this: `I am a tabby cat`? (this is assuming that `"tabby"` is the `type` we passed in during initialization).

Answer:

The class definition could override the default `to_s` with a custom implementation.  A getter method for `@type` would also be more conventional.

```ruby
class Cat
  attr_reader :type

  def initialize(type)
    @type = type
  end

  def to_s
    "I am a #{type} cat"
  end
end
```

---

##### Question 5
If I have the following class:

```ruby
class Television
  def self.manufacturer
    # method logic
  end

  def model
    # method logic
  end
end
```

What would happen if I called the methods like shown below?

```ruby
tv = Television.new
tv.manufacturer
tv.model

Television.manufacturer
Television.model
```

Answer:

- `tv.manufacturer` would raise a `NoMethodError` exception because there is no instance method named `manufacturer` defined, only a class method.
- `tv.model` would return evaluate as expected.
- `Television.manufacturer` would evaluate as expected.
- `Television.model` would raise a `NoMethodError` exception because there is no class method named `model` defined, only an instance method.

Launch School's answer:

- If you attempted to call tv.manufacturer you would get an error and it would look something like this undefined method manufacturer for #<Television:XXXX>, this is because tv is an instance of the class Television and manufacturer is a class method, meaning it can only be called on the class itself (in this case Television).
- You would also get an error if you tried to call Television.model, the error would look something like NoMethodError: undefined method 'model' for Television:Class. This is because this method only exists on an instance of the class Television in this case tv.

---

##### Question 6
If we have a class such as the one below:

```ruby
class Cat
  attr_accessor :type, :age

  def initialize(type)
    @type = type
    @age = 0
  end

  def make_one_year_older
    self.age += 1
  end
end
```

In the `make_one_year_older` method we have used `self`.  What is another way we could write this method so we don't have to use the `self` prefix?

Answer:

Instead of using `self.age`, `@age` could be used.  This is due to the fact that `self.age += 1` is shorthand for a setter method call (self.age = ()` with the argument `age + 1`.

`self` is required here because `age = ()` can be interpreted as either a setter method or local variable assignment.  In order for Ruby to correctly evaluate this expression, `self` is prefixed to setter method calls.  The alternative, `@age`, uses the instance variable to perform reassignment.

---

##### Question 7
What is used in this class but doesn't add any value?

```ruby
class Light
  attr_accessor :brightness, :color

  def initialize(brightness, color)
    @brightness = brightness
    @color = color
  end

  def self.information
    return "I want to turn on the light with a brightness level of super high and a color of green"
  end
end
```

Answer:

`attr_accessor :brightness, :color` and `return` are not being used, thus add no value.  Between the two, `return` is particularly unnecessary.  `self.information` has only one expression, so it would be returned regardless of whether `return` is given or not.

