##### Question 1
Which of the following are objects in Ruby?

1. `true`
2. `'hello'`
3. `[1, 2, 3, 'happy days']`
4. 142

Answer:

All of the above.

---

##### Question 2
If we have a `Car` class and a `Truck` class and we want to be able to `go_fast`, how can we add the ability for them to `go_fast` using the module `Speed`?
How can you check if your `Car` or `Truck` can now go fast?

```ruby
module Speed
  def go_fast
    puts "I am a #{self.class} and going super fast!"
  end
end

class Car
  def go_slow
    puts "I am safe and driving slow."
  end
end

class Truck
  def go_very_slow
    puts "I am a heavy truck and like going very slow."
  end
end
```

Answer:

To make instances of a `Car` and a `Truck` `go_fast`, their classes need to `include Speed` in their class definitions.  After the module is included in the classes' definitions, instances of `Car` and `Truck` can now access the ability to `go_fast`.

```ruby
module Speed
  def go_fast
    puts "I am a #{self.class} and going super fast!"
  end
end

class Car
  include Speed

  def go_slow
    puts "I am safe and driving slow."
  end
end

class Truck
  include Speed

  def go_very_slow
    puts "I am a heavy truck and like going very slow."
  end
end

pinto = Car.new
f150 = Truck.new

pinto.go_fast # "I am a Car and going super fast!"
f150.go_fast # "I am a Truck and going super fast!"
```

---

##### Question 3
In the last question we had a module called `Speed` which contained a `go_fast` method.  We included this module in the `Car` class as shown below:

```ruby
module Speed
  def go_fast
    puts "I am a #{self.class} and going super fast!"
  end
end

class Car
  include Speed

  def go_slow
    puts "I am safe and driving slow."
  end
end
```

When we called the `go_fast` method from an instance of the `Car` class (as shown below) yo might have noticed that the `string` printed when we go fast includes the name of type of vehicle we are using.  How is this done?

```ruby
>> small_car = Car.new
>> small_car.go_fast
I am a Car and going super fast!
```

Answer:

`Car` is included in the output of the method `go_fast` due to how the keyword `self` functions.  When `self` is used within an instance method definition, it references the method's caller.  In this particular example, `self` in `go_fast` is referencing the instantiated `Car` object that `small_car` is referencing.  This object is then passed to the method `class` which returns the caller's class, in this case `Car`.  This class is then represented as a String due to the implicit call of `to_s` when the `#{}` syntax is used in string interpolation.

---

##### Question 4
If we have a class `AngryCat` how do we create a new instance of this class?

The `AngryCat` class might look something like this:

```ruby
class AngryCat
  def hiss
    puts "Hisssss!!!"
  end
end
```

Answer:

`AngryCat.new`

---

##### Question 5
Which of these two classes has an instance variable and how do you know?

```ruby
class Fruit
  def initialize(name)
    name = name
  end
end

class Pizza
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end
end
```

Answer:

`Pizza` has an instance variable (and `Fruit` has a local variable).  Instance variables are defined with a prepending `@`.

---

##### Question 6
What could we add to the class below to access the instance variable `@volume`?

```ruby
class Cube
  def initialize(volume)
    @volume = volume
  end
end
```

Answer:

There are at least 3 approaches to access the instance variable `@volume`:

- `attr_reader :volume` would create a getter method of the same name as the instance variable, `volume`.
- `attr_accessor :volume` would also create a getter method of the same name (as well as a setter method, which may or may not be desirable).
- `def volume; @volume; end` is a manual way of defining a getter method of the same name as the instance variable.  It is more verbose, however the advantage is that this approach creates an opportunity to control how the instance variable is formatted or modified before it is accessed.

---

##### Question 7
What is the default return value of `to_s` when invoked on an object?  Where could you go to find out if you wanted to be sure?

Answer:

The default return value of `to_s` is a String representation of the calling object.  The object's class name, its encoded object id, and its instance variables would be included in this String representation.

If one wanted to be certain, `class` could be invoked on `to_s` to determine which implementation is being used.  If one still isn't certain, one could take it a step further by inspecting the class's implementation of `to_s` in the Ruby API.

---

##### Question 8
If we have a class such as the one below:

```class Cat
  attr_accessor :type, :age

  def initialize(type)
    @type = type
    @age = 0
  end

  def make_one_year_older
    self.age += 1
  end
end
```

You can see in the `make_one_year_older` method we have used `self`.  What does `self` refer to here?

Answer:

`self` refers to the instantiated object of `Cat` calling the method `make_one_year_older`.  `make_one_year_older` is an instance method and can only be called by an instance of `Cat`.

---

##### Question 9
If we have a class such as the one below:

```ruby
class Cat
  @@cats_count = 0

  def initialize(type)
    @type = type
    @age = 0
    @@cats_count += 1
  end

  def self.cats_count
    @@cats_count
  end
end
```

In the name of the `cats_count` method we have used `self`.  What does `self` refer to in this context?

Answer:

In this example, `self` refers to the class `Cat`.  When `self` is used in a method definition's name, it defines a class method.  In this example, `self` specifically refers to `Cat`.

---

##### Question 10
If we have the class below, what would you need to call to create a new instance of this class.

```ruby
class Bag
  def initialize(coolor, material)
    @color = coolor
    @material = material
  end
end
```

Answer:

To create an instance of `Bag`, `Bag` needs to be referenced and used to invoke the method `new` with two arguments passed to it.  Because of the implementation of `Bag`, and more specifically `Bag`'s `initialize` method, any kind of value could be passed as arguments.
