##### Question 1
You are given the following code:

```ruby
class Oracle
  def predict_the_future
    "You will " + choices.sample
  end

  def choices
    ["eat a nice lunch", "take a nap soon", "stay at work late"]
  end
end
```

What is the result of executing the following code:

```ruby
oracle = Oracle.new
oracle.predict_the_future
```

Answer:

First, an instantiated object of `Oracle` is assigned to the local variable `oracle`.  Then the object invokes the instance method `predict_the_future` which returns a `String` appended with a randomly chosen `String` from `choices`, using the method `sample`.  The resulting `String` would be any of the three following:

- `'You will eat a nice lunch'`
- `'You will take a nap soon'`
- `'You will stay at work late'`

---

##### Question 2
We have an `Oracle` class and a `Roadtrip` class that inherits from the `Oracle` class.

```ruby
class Oracle
  def predict_the_future
    "You will " + choices.sample
  end

  def choices
    ["eat a nice lunch", "take a nap", "stay at work late"]
  end
end

class RoadTrip < Oracle
  def choices
    ["visit Vegas", "fly to Fiji", "romp in Rome"]
  end
end
```

What is the result of the following:

```ruby
trip = RoadTrip.new
trip.predict_the_future
```

Answer:

Just as in the previous question, an instantiated object is assigned to a local variable.  This time the object is of the `RoadTrip` class and the local variable is `trip`.  What is different in this example is that `RoadTrip` is a subclass of `Oracle`.  This results in `RoadTrip` inheriting the instance methods `predict_the_future` and `choices`.  However `RoadTrip` overrides the `Oracles#choices` by defining its own implementation.

When `predict_the_future` is invoked, `choices` references `RoadTrip#choices` instead of `Oracle#choices` because it is an instance method and thus first searches for the method `choices` within its caller's class first.

The resulting `String` would be any of the three folowing:

- `"You will visit Vegas"`
- `"You will fly to Fiji"`
- `"You will romp in Rome"`

---

##### Question 3
How do you find where Ruby will look for a method when that method is called?  How can you find an object's ancestors?

```ruby
module Taste
  def flavor(flavor)
    puts "#{flavor}"
  end
end

class Orange
  include Taste
end

class HotSauce
  include Taste
end
```

Answer:

When a method is invoked, first Ruby will look in the caller's class.  If the method is not found there, then Ruby looks within any modules mixin (inspecting from last to first included module).  If the method still isn't found, then the class's superclass is inspected, followed by any modules the superclass includes.  This process continues until `BasicObject` is inspected.  If the method is not found, then a `NoMethodError` exception is raised.  This method lookup chain can be found by calling the method `ancestors` on the method's class.

In this particular example with `Orange` and `Hotauce`, the method lookup chains will be similar:

- `[Orange, Taste, Object, Kernel, BasicObject]`
- `[HotSauce, Taste, Object, Kernel, BasicObject]`

---

##### Question 4
What could you do to this class to simplify it and remove two methods from the class definition while still maintaining the same functionality?

```ruby
class BeesWax
  def inititalize(type)
    @type = type
  end

  def type
    @type
  end

  def type=(t)
    @type = t
  end

  def describe_type
    puts "I am a #{@type} of Bees Wax"
  end
end
```

Answer:

The getter and setter methods could be replaced with the expression `attr_accessor :type`.  `@type` could also be replaced with the getter method `type`.  This is possible because the getter and setter methods aren't doing anything beyond a default implementation.

---

##### Question 5
There are a number of variables listed below.  What are the different types and how do you know which is which?

```ruby
excited_dog = "excited dog"
@excited_dog = "excited dog"
@@excited_dog = "excited dog"
```

Answer:

There are 3 types of varaibles listed:

- The first is a local variable.  This can be identified by the variable name in all lowercase characters.
- The second is an instance variable.  This can be identified by the variable name being prepended with a `@` character.
- The third is a class variable.  This can be identified by the variable name being prepended with `@@` characters.

---

##### Question 6
If I have the following class:

```ruby
class Television
  def self.manufacturer
    # method logic
  end

  def model
    # method logic
  end
end
```

Which one of these is a class method (if any) and how do you know?  How would you call a class method?

Answer:

The class method is `self.manufacturer`.  Only class methods use `self` in the method definition's name.

This method would be called by using the class as the method's caller, `Television.manufacturer`.

---

##### Question 7
If we have a class such as the one below:

```ruby
class Cat
  @@cats_count

  def initialize(type)
    @type = type
    @age = 0
    @@cats_count += 1
  end

  def self.cats_count
    @@cats_count
  end
end
```

Explain what the `@@cats_count` variable does and how it works.  What code would you need to write to test your theory?

`@@cats_count` is used to keep count of how many objects from `Cat` are instantiated.  `@@cats_count` is a class variable, thus is shared with all instances of `Cat`.  This means that regardless of whether an instance of `Cat` or `Cat` itself references `@@cats_count`, the same object will always be referenced (as opposed to instance variables which reference unique values based upon their instantiated object).

To test this concept, one could invoke `Cat.cats_count` before and after instantiating an object from `Cat`.  Because of the incrementation of `@@cats_count` occurring in `Cat`'s `initialize` method, this approach would show `@@cats_count` incremented by 1.

---

##### Question 8
If we have this class:

```ruby
class Game
  def play
    "Start the Game!"
  end
end
```

And another class:

```ruby
class Bingo
  def rules_of_play
    #rules of play
  end
end
```

What can we add to the `Bingo` class to allow it to inherit the `play` method from the `Game` class?

Answer:

`< Game` can be prepended to the class name in the class definition.

---

##### Question 9
If we have this class:

```ruby
class Game
  def play
    "Start the game!"
  end
end

class Bingo < Game
  def rules_of_play
    #rules of play
  end
end
```

What would happen if we added a `play` method to the `Bingo` class, keeping in mind that there is already a method of this name in the `Game` class that the `Bingo` class inherits from.

Answer:

If `Bingo` defined its own implementation of `play`, `Game#play`'s implementation would be overridden by `Bingo#play`'s implementation.  Alternatively, `Bingo#play` could invoke `Game#play` by including the keyword `super` in it's method definition.

---

##### Question 10
What are the benefits of using Object Oriented Programming in Ruby?  Think of as many as you can.

Answer:

There are many benefits to using object oriented programming in Ruby:

- An object oriented approach uses **encapsulation** to limit access to data.  This allows for considering aspects of a problem in isolation.  This is done by defining the scope and access of behaviors and states through classes and objects.
- Using an object oriented model makes it possible to consider data in a **higher level of abstraction** such as relationships of nouns and verbs.  This is done by using expressive names for objects, variables, and methods.
- **Polymorphism** creates a more concise and legible form of code for Ruby's object oriented approach.  There are a number of ways to implement polymorphism.  However at the core, the idea is to consider how multiple types of information can have the same type of behavior, thus reuse names to create an intuitive interface.
- Another asset that Ruby's object oriented paradigm provides is **inheritance** and Ruby's unique approach.
  - Ruby uses singular inheritance (**heirarchal inheritance**) to create a parent and child relationship (superclass and subclass) between classes and objects.  This means behaviors and states can be passed down to children.  Ruby is somewhat unique in that a class can only have a single superclass.  This helps to avoid situations where multiple parents are passing the same behavior/state to a child and the child feeling awkward about which parent to choose.
  - Another unique aspect of Ruby's approach to inheritance is the use of modules (**interface inheritance**).  This is a means to pass behaviors and states that don't have a logical heirarchal approach.

Launch School's answer:

- Because there are so many benefits to using OOP we will just summarize some of the major ones:
  - Creating objects allows programmers to think more abstractly about the code they are writing.
  - Objects are represented by nouns so are easier to conceptualize.
  - It allows us to only expose functionality to the parts of code that need it, meaning namespace issues are much harder to come across.
  - It allows us to easily give functionality to different parts of an application without duplication.
  - We can build applications faster as we can reuse pre-written code.
  - As the software becomes more complex this complexity can be more easily managed.
