## Setting Up the Project Directory

Setup a new directory for this lesson.

- Make sure the directory isn't a child of another git repo (this new directory will become a new git repo).
- Make sure the directory is labeled with only letters, numbers, and underscores (whitespaces in particular can cause unexpected results).

#### What is a Project?

The term project, in this context, refers to a collection of multiple files used to develop, test, build, and distribute software.  The software could be an executable program, a library module, or a combination of the two.  The project's contents will include source code (in any/all languages required), tests, assets, HTML files, databases, configuration files, and more.

Most Ruby based projects follow standard patterns.  The most common pattern for Ruby projects is the Rubygems standard.

#### Walkthrough: Setting Up Your Project

- Setup a new directory and repo.
- Add project file.
- Add test file.
- Setup directory structure.
  - Ruby has file structure conventions:
  - source code files are stored in `/lib`
  - test files are stored in `/test`
  - assets (images, JavaScript, and CSS (stylesheets)) are stored in `/assets`
    - subdirectories are created for each type of asset:
    - images are stored in `/assets/images`
    - JS files are stored in `/assets/javascript`
    - CSS files are stored in `/assets/stylesheets`
  - HTML 'template' files are stored in `/views`
  - There are more types of files, however these are the basics.

```
# setup a new directory
$ cd
$ mkdir project_directory_name
$ cd project_directory_name
```

```
# create a repo
$ echo "# project_name" >> README.md
$ git init
$ git add README.md
$ git commit -m 'Initial commit'
$ git branch -m main
$ git remote add origin USERNAME/project_directory_name.git
$ git push -u origin main
```

```
# cloning a repo
# after creating a new local directory and navigating to it
$ git clone remote_repo_url
```
