## Blocks and Variable Scope

#### Refresher

- Local variables' scope is defined by where the variables are initialized.
- Blocks create a new scope.
  - Local variables defined outside of a new scope are accessible within the new, inner scope.
  - Local variables defined inside of a new scope are not accessible outside of that scope.

```ruby
level_1 = 'outer-most variable'

[1, 2, 3].each do |num|              # block creates a new scope
  level_2 = 'inner variable'

  %w(a b c).each do |char|           # nested block creates a nested scope
    level_3 = 'inner-most variable'

    # variables from all 3 levels are accessible here
  end

  # level 1 & 2 variables are accessible here
  # level 3 variables are not accessible here
end

# level 1 variables are accessible here
# level 2 & 3 variables are not accessible here
```

- Local variables can sometimes be tricky to identify in Ruby due to its syntactical sugar.
  - Methods don't always require argument parentheses, which can result in confusion in identifying local variables vs method calls.

#### Closures and binding

- Ruby implements the concept of closures through the implementation of blocks, `Proc`s, and `Lambda`s.
- A closure is a 'chunk of code' that can be passed around and executed later.
  - In order to be passed around, a closure must keep track of the state of its surrounding context (in regards to where it is defined).
- A 'chunk of code' is referenced as being unnamed.

```ruby
chunk_of_code = Proc.new { 'hello' }

puts chunk_of_code # <Proc:0x002300dsf930>
puts chunk_of_code.call # hello
```

- In order for a `Proc` to be evaluated, it must invoke the `#call` method.

```ruby
def a_method(some_code)
  some_code.call
end

chunk_of_code = Proc.new { puts "hello #{name}" }
a_method(chunk_of_code) # <NameError> # `name' is an undefined method or variable

name = 'dude'
chunky_code = Proc.new { puts "hi #{name}" }
a_method(chunk_of_code) # hi dude
name = 'lebowski'
a_method(chunk_of_code) # hi lebowski
```

- A closure keeps track of the state of its surrounding context, however it only tracks variables initialized before it.
  - Methods defined after a closure is defined/initialized are available to a closure.
    - Methods behave differently due to `main`.  In Ruby, the top level scope is `main`.  I'm not entirely clear what `main` is referencing, however it seems to be the `Object` class or an object of `Object`.  Either way, `self` in the top level references `main` and has access to all methods accessible to `Object`.
      - Another interesting note is that the top level uses `private` by default.  If methods are defined as `public`, all classes/objects inheriting from `Object` have access to those methods.
  - In the example, line 6 raises an exception due to `name` not being initialized when the `Proc` on line 5 is instantiated.
  - The `Proc` on line 9 is instantiated after a `name` variable is initialized, therefore it can access the value assigned to `name` before and after the `Proc` object's instantiation.
- A closure can bring its surrounding context with it into different scope.
  - On line 10 and 12, the `Proc` object is passed into the `#a_method`, however the `Proc` object is still able to access the `name` local variable in the outer scope.
  - This is at odds with how methods are scoped.
  - This ability to track its surrounding context and bring that context wherever it goes is referred to as its **binding**.
