## Writing Methods that take Blocks

- All methods can be defined with parentheses to define arguments.
  - Arguments can be passed in to a method invocation without parentheses, however there are special rules that apply (ie, parentheses are required when method chaining with arguments, defining complex expressions relying on the order of precedence).
  - If a method doesn't accept an argument and is passed an argument anyways, an ArgumentError is raised.
- All methods can be defined with a block.
  - In Ruby, every method can accept a block as an implicit argument.
  - If the method doesn't accept a block, the block is ignored.

#### Yielding

- One way to invoke a block from within a method implementation is by using the `yield` keyword.
- Using `yield` means a block must be passed to the method, unless it is handled- for instance with a conditional.

```ruby
def output_that(phrase)
  puts phrase
  yield
end

def output_this(phrase)
  puts phrase
  yield if block_given?
end

output_that('represent')
# LocalJumpError

output_this('I know I can')
# I know I can
output_this('I know I can') { puts 'be what I wanna be' }
# I know I can
# be what I wanna be
```

- `yield` ends up acting like a method invocation, much like how `super` acts.
  - When the method is invoked, evaluating `yield` 'jumps' the evaluation to the block argument.  Once the block evaluation has completed, the evaluation jumps back to the expression after `yield` within the method definition.
- `Kernel#block_given?` returns a boolean for whether a block is passed to the method containing `#block_given?`.

#### Yielding with an argument

- Passing an argument to the block using `yield` functions much as one would expect, with some exceptions.
  - One argument passed to `yield` and one block parameter is defined:
    - `yield`'s argument is assigned to the block parameter.
  - One argument passed to `yield` and two or more block parameters are defined:
    - `yield`'s argument is assigned to the first block parameter, all other parameters are assigned to `nil`.
  - Two arguments passed to `yield` and one block parameter is defined:
    - `yield`'s first argument is assigned to the first block parameter, all other arguments are ignored.

```ruby
def try
  yield(3)
end

try { |num| puts num }
# 3

try { |num1, num2| puts "#{num1}-#{num2}" }
# 3-

def try_harder
  yield(3, 4)
end

try_harder { |num| puts num }
# 3
```

- This demonstrates how **arity** behaves for blocks.  **Arity** is a rule in Ruby about the number of arguments that must be passed to a `proc`, `lambda`, or block.
  - Blocks and `proc`s in Ruby have **lenient arity**, which means Ruby allows more than or less than the expected number of arguments.
  - Methods and `lambda`s in Ruby have **strict arity**, which means Ruby requires an exact number of arguments.
  - *This is a simplified explanation of arity.  Aspects such as optional arguments, variable arguments, and variable keyword arguments do not follow these arity rules.*
    - <https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.1/doc/syntax/calling_methods_rdoc.html#label-Arguments>

#### Return value of yielding a block

- Blocks have return values (the last expression evaluated) and are passed back to `yield`.
  - This is another similarity that blocks share with methods

#### When to use blocks in custom methods

- Two terms are defined for this explanation:
  - Method implementors: A programmer creating the method implementation.
  - Method callers: A programmer invoking the method.
- Deferring some code implementation to method invocation decision.
  - When the method implementor doesn't know exactly how the method will be used, wants to give the method caller flexibility, or the ability to refine the implementation.
  - If there's a method that is constantly being called with some tweaks here or there, this is a signal that a block might be appropriate.
  - Sometimes creating a generic method creates flexibility and is both easier to remember as well as more DRY.
- Methods that need to perform some 'before' and 'after' actions- sandwich code.
  - This could be in the form of resource management or interfacing with the operating system.
    - Many OS interfaces require developers to allocate resources, then free up the resources (ignoring this can result in serious bugs such as system crashes, memory leaks, and file system corruption).

#### Methods with an explicit block parameter

- By default, methods implicitly accept block arguments.  The implicit block may be ignored, but it will still be accepted.
- An explicit block parameter means defining a method parameter to be a block argument.
  - A block parameter is defined with a prepending `&`.  Within the method definition's body, the block parameter is referenced without the `&` character.
  - Defining a block like this creates some additional flexibility with a method implementation.  An explicit block parameter creates a method local variable.
    - Due to the block being referenced by a variable, it can be passed as an argument to another method.
    - An explicit block parameter references the block as a simple `Proc` object.  As a result the variable referencing the block, `Proc`, will reference the `Proc` object.
    - To evaluate the `Proc`'s 'chunk of code' and return the value of its last evaluated expression, the `#call` method can be invoked.

```ruby
def a_method(&block)
  puts "What's a &block? #{block}"
end

a_method { "This is the &block!" }
# What's a &block? #< Proc:0x00039sd8380 (irb): 4>
```

```ruby
def test
  a_var = yield if block_given?
  test2(a_var)
end

def test2(var)
  puts var
end

test { "Hello from test's block parameter.  How's the weather out there?" }
# Hello from test's block parameter.  How's the weather out there?
```

```ruby
def try_this(&block)
  puts block
end

def try_that(&block)
  puts block.call
end

try_this { "Hello from the try_this block parameter!" }
# <Proc:0x008348fds90 (irb):4>
try_that { "Hello from the try_that block parameter!" }
# Hello from the try_that block parameter!
```


#### Using Closures

Closures are powerful in many languages including Ruby.  Their power revolves around the ability to pass chunks of code around in a program.

- Closures they can access variables outside of their scope.
- They can update and modify code outside of themselves.
- They remember the state of their surrounding scope- including the variables.
  - This seems to feel like closures take variables outside of their scope as instance variables.  However this doesn't seem like a perfect mental model, as the referenced variables are still accessible outside of the scope.

```ruby
def sequence
  counter = 0
  Proc.new { counter += 1 }
end

s1 = sequence
p s1.call # 1
p s1.call # 2
p s1.call # 3

s2 = sequence
p s2.call # 1
p s2.call # 2

p s1.call # 4
p s2.call # 3
```
