## Minitest

Minitest is Ruby's default testing library and part of Ruby's standard library.  In other words, it's a bundled gem shipped with Ruby.  It is, however, maintained outside of the core Ruby team and can be uninstalled.

Minitest can do everything that Rspec can (Rspec seems to be more popular).

- Minitest has a simpler syntax.
  - Minitest can be written with DSL or in a simpler, more *'normal'* Ruby syntax.
- Rspec has syntax to allow for writing code in relatively plain English, however the tradeoff is added complexity.
  - Rspec is considered a **Domain Specific Language** (DSL) for writing tests.

#### Vocabulary

- *'Test Suite'* - This is all the tests, or set of tests used for a program/application.
- *'Test'* - This is a situation or context in which tests are run.  Ie, this test is about making sure you get an error message after trying to log in with an email that isn't registered.
- *'Assertion'* - This is the actual verification step to confirm that the data returned by the program/application is what is expected.  More than one assertion can be made within a single test.

There's plenty more jargon to learn, however this is enough to get going.

#### Your First Test

To start testing, there needs to be some code to test.  So an example class can be defined:

```ruby
# car.rb

class Car
  attr_accessor :wheels

  def initialize
    @wheels = 4
  end
end
```

Now a test script must be defined:

```ruby
# car_test.rb

require 'minitest/autorun'

require_relative 'car'

class CarTest < Minitest::Test
  def test_wheels
    car = Car.new
    assert_equal(4, car.wheels)
  end
end
```

Running the test will output the following test result:

```
$ ruby car_test.rb

Run options: --seed 62238

# Running:

.

Finished in 0.001325s, 1508.2956 runs/s, 754.147 assertions/s.

1 runs, 1 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

At first glance, one of the easiest things to decipher should be `1 runs, 1 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips`.
This means one assertion was tested and there were no failed tests.  That's testing in a nutshell!

#### What's in the test file

Looking at the test script above, there are some unfamiliar expressions/syntax.

- `require` is the method invoked to load a file.
  - This is an easy way to load a Gem.
  - `Kernel#require(filename)`
  - If no filename extension is given, Ruby tries looking by adding `.rb`, then `.so`, `.o`, `.dll`.  A `LoadError` will be raised if the file cannot be found.
  - If the filename neither resolves to an absolute path nor starts with `./` or `../`, the file is searched for in directories listed in `$LOAD_PATH` (aka, `$:`).
    - `./` and `../` use `Dir.pwd` to locate the directory.
- `minitest/autorun` is what is called to load all the necessary minitest files.
- `require_relative(filename)` loads a file relative to the directory of the file calling it (which is the script it is written in).
  - <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3672586/what-is-the-difference-between-require-relative-and-require-in-ruby>
- The superclass `Minitest::Test` is used to inherit all the necessary methods for writing tests.
  - The `t` in `Minitest` can be lowercase or uppercase.  Not sure why that is, perhaps an alias?
    - `Minitest::Test` and `Minitest::Test` are both acceptable.
- Tests are created by defining instance methods with the method name beginning with `test_`.  Minitest uses this naming convention to identify individual tests to run.
  - Assertions are found within tests.
- Assertions are what are verified.
  - `assert_equal` is one of many types of assertion methods inherited.
- The `Car.new` object is instantiated so there is data to verify.

#### Reading test output

Looking at the test output, there numerous aspects displayed.  These aspects are referred to as *options*.

- *seed* tells Minitest what order the tests were run in.  Most test suites will have multiple tests and those tests are run in random order.  The *seed* is a way to tell Minitest a particular order to run tests.  This isn't commonly used, however it is an option for bugs that only occur with specific situations or sequences of events.
- The dot ('.'), that's right the dot is important.  The dot means the test was run and did not fail.
  - If a test assertion is skipped, 'S' will be output.
  - If a test assertion fails, 'F' will be output.

#### Failures

A failure would occur if a test's assertion does not evaluate as `true`.

For example, if the above example passed into `assert_equal` a `3` instead of `4`, this would fail.  `car.wheels` has `4` wheels.  This result in a test output like the following:

```
$ ruby car_test.rb

Run options: --seed 8743

# Running:

F

Finished in 0.000343s, 1239.2343 runs/s, 1234.2421 assertions/s.

  1) Failure:
CarTest#test_wheels [car_test.rb:21]:
Expected: 3
  Actual: 4

1 runs, 1 assertions, 1 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

For failures, along with the 'F', a small explanation is output.

#### A dash of color

One can change the way the tests are displayed with the use of the `minitest-reporters` gem.  First, it must be installed:

`gem install minitest-reporters`

Next, the test script must include the gem and invoke `use!` on the provided class with the following code:

```ruby
require 'Minitest/reporters'
Minitest::reporters.use!
```

Now running the test script will output slightly differently:

```
Started with run options --seed 64197

 FAIL CarTest#test_bad_wheels (0.00s)
        Expected: 3
          Actual: 4
        car_test.rb:21:in `test_bad_wheels'
        /Users/asdresher/.rbenv/versions/3.0.2/lib/ruby/gems/3.0.0/gems/minitest-reporters-1.5.0/lib/Minitest/reporters.rb:48:in `run_with_hooks'

  2/2: [========================================================================================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00212s
2 tests, 2 assertions, 1 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

It's essentially the same information, but formatted differently and with some added color.

- Note that failures, skips, and passes are colored differently.

#### Skipping Tests

There may be situations where a need to skip a test arises.  Perhaps a set of tests have been created before the implementation has been written.  In that context, it might be useful to test code as it's being implemented however the tests for unimplemented/unfinished code might raise an error.  For example, let's say the following test was added to the above test script:

```ruby
def test_transmission
  car = Car.new
  assert_equal('manual', car.transmission)
end
```

This test would raise an exception due to `#transmission` not being available to `Car` objects.  The test would output something like the following:

```
E

Finished in 0.00324s, 1923.2323 runs/s, 1235.4421 assertions/s.

  1) Error:
CarTest#test_transmission:
NoMethodError: undefined method `transmission' for #<Car:0x00007fa44782c150 @wheels=4>
    car_test.rb:26:in `test_transmission'

1 runs, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 1 errors, 0 skips

# test output using Minitest-reporters

ERROR CarTest#test_transmission (0.00s)
Minitest::UnexpectedError:         NoMethodError: undefined method `transmission' for #<Car:0x00007fc03f812340 @wheels=4>
            car_test.rb:27:in `test_transmission'

  1/1: [========================================================================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00353s
1 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 1 errors, 0 skips
```

To skip this test, `skip` can be invoked within the test method.  That would look like so:

```ruby
def test_transmission
  skip
  car = Car.new
  assert_equal('manual', car.transmission)
end
```

This test output would look something like:

```
S

Finished in 0.001232s, 811.6883 runs/s, 0.0000 assertions/s.

1 runs, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 1 skips

You have skipped tests. Run with --verbose for details.

# test output using Minitest-reporters

 SKIP CarTest#test_transmission (0.00s)
        Skipped, no message given
        car_test.rb:25:in `test_transmission'

  1/1: [========================================================================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00226s
1 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 1 skips
```

Or if a custom message is desired, a string argument can be passed to `skip`.

- Custom messages will be hidden by Minitest's standard test output.  To display the custom message, `--verbose` must be appended to the script invocation:
  - `ruby car_test.rb --verbose`
  - Note, the added option isn't necessary when using Minitest-reporters.  Custom messages are displayed by default with Minitest-reporters.

This will output the following test info:

```
CarTest#test_transmission = 0.00 s = S

Finished in 0.001501s, 666.2225 runs/s, 0.0000 assertions/s.

  1) Skipped:
CarTest#test_transmission [car_test.rb:25]:
custom message passed to the skip keyword

1 runs, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 1 skips

# test output using Minitest-reporters

 SKIP CarTest#test_transmission (0.00s)
        custom message passed to the skip keyword
        car_test.rb:25:in `test_transmission'

  1/1: [========================================================================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00282s
1 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 1 skips
```

#### Exception Syntax

Exception or spec-style syntax is also available with Minitest, however it is written with a different format.

- Tests are grouped in `describe` blocks.
- Individual tests are defined with `it` methods.
- Instead of assertion, *expectation matchers* are used.
- This style of testing tends to read more like plain English.
- Exception and assertion style tests will produce the same test output.  The only difference is the syntax in which the tests are written.
  - Some prefer exception style as it mimics Rspec syntax.

For example, this is how a exception style test script would to test the `Cars#wheels`:

```ruby
require 'Minitest/autorun'

require_relative 'car'

describe 'Car#wheels' do
  it 'has 4 wheels' do
    car = Car.new
    _(car.wheels).must_have 4  # this is the expectation
  end
end
```

#### Summary

- Minitest is an intuitive test library which comes installed with Ruby's Standard Library.
- Minitest is easy to use.
- Test classes are created by subclassing from `Minitest::Test`.
- Assertion style:
  - Tests are created by defining an instance method with a name beginning with `test_`.
  - Individual assertions are created by invoking assertion methods (ex., `assert_equal`), and the required arguments.
  - Tests can be skipped using `skip`.
- `Minitest-reporters` can be used to make test output more engaging to read.
- Minitest has 2 syntactical styles: assertion and exception.
  - Assertion style is more intuitive for beginner Rubyists.
  - Exception style is more akin to Rspec syntax.
