## Inheritance and Variable Scope

#### Instance Variables
Instance variables can be inherited, but their values cannot be.

Instance variables behave similar to instance methods with a couple exceptions:

- Instance variables must be initialized first, else they reference `nil`.
- Instance variables and their referenced values can be inherited much like classes and objects can be inherited. The instance variables are like generic molds that are used to produce copies when objects are instantiated.  As a result, unlike instance methods, values are not inherited.

#### Class Variables
Class variables can be inherited, but inherited classes will all reference the same object.

This can cause problems when subclasses can modify a superclass's class variable because all subclasses will reference the same modified class variable.

For example:
```ruby
class Vehicle
  def initialize
    @@wheels = 4
  end

  def wheels
    @@wheels
  end
end

Vehicle.wheels # 4

class Motorcycle < Vehicle
  @@wheels = 2
end

class Car < Vehicle
end

Motorcycle.wheels # 2
Vehicle.wheels # 2
Car.wheels # 2
```

Note that the last assignment of `@@wheels` is the one is reflected.  Regardless of which class method defines a class variable, it's the order which class variables are evaluated that matters more.

For this reason, class variables can be a bit tricky.  Common advice is to avoid class variables when working with inheritance.

#### Constants
Constants have lexical scope.  This means their position within the code determines where they are available.  First, the constant is searched for within the level of scope being  called.  Then ancestors are investigated for the constant.  Finally, the top level is investigated for the constant.

For example:
```ruby
class Vehicle
  WHEELS = 4
end

WHEELS = 6

class Car < Vehicle
  def wheels
    WHEELS
  end
end

car = Car.new
car.wheels # 4
```

The top level constant `WHEELS` is not used because `Car`'s inherited scope must first be checked.
