## Equivalence

*'Everything is an object'* is a useful phrase to explain how Ruby works, however it isn't completely true or accurate.  For example, methods, blocks, `if` statements, argument lists, and many other things are not objects.

When considering equivalence, it is important to consider what equivalence means.  Equality, up to this point, means equal value.

However now it's time to go down a rabbit hole.  Take the following code as an example:
```ruby
str1 = 'something'
str2 = 'something'
str1 == str2 # true

str1.class # String
str2.class # String
str1.object_id # 240
str2.object_id # 260

str1 = str1 + ' else' # 'something else'
str1 # 'something else'
str2 # 'something'
```

`str1` and `str2` both reference a String object with the same value, thus they have equivalent values.  However they are both unique String objects, as their object ids highlight.  If `str1` was modified, `str2` would not reflect this modification.


#### `equal?`

Take a look at the next example:
```ruby
str1 = 'something'
str2 = 'something'
str1_copy = str1

str1 == str2 # true
str1 == str1_copy # true
str2 == str1_copy # true

str1.equal? str2 # false
str1.equal? str1_copy # true
str2.equal? str1_copy # false
```

Here, the `equal?` method is used to compare the objects *themselves* - not their values.

This means comparison using `equal?` is the same as comparing objects' object id.

#### `==`

This begs the question, how does the `==` method know which values from an object to compare?

The trick is that `==` is a *method* and not an *operator*.  This method is inherited to all objects via `BasicObject`.  The default implementation of `==` is to compare the objects themselves.  Most classes override `==` so the appropriate values are compared, however best practice suggests against overriding `equal?`.

This new implementation looks something like this:
```ruby
class Food
  attr_accessor :name

  def ==(other)
    name == other.name # uses the calling object's implementation of ==
  end
end

taco = Food.new
taco.name = 'taco'

taco2 = Food.new
taco2.name = 'taco'

taco == taco2 # true
```

When implementing `==`, `!=` is implemented in kind.

Now look at the following:
```ruby
sym1 = :something
sym2 = :something
sym1 == sym2 # true

int1 = 10
int2 = 10
int1 == int2 # true

42 == 42.00 # true
42.00 == 42 # true
```

Symbols, Integers, and some other object types are not mutable.  This means they share the same value *and* object id.  This is a performance optimization in Ruby.  This is one reason why Symbols are favored in places such as Hash keys.  Essentially, this is a memory saver.

#### `===`

The next method to mention is `===`.  It's another instance method and is overridden by classes for specific implementation.  The important part to remember for this method is that it is implicitly used by `case` statements.

Here's an example that highlights how `===` is implemented
```ruby
String === 'hello' # true
String === 42 # false
```

`===` uses it's caller as a group and checks if the argument is a member of that group.  `case` uses the `Range#===` implementation, however it essentially functions the same.

#### `eql?`

This method checks if its caller and argument have both the same value and are of the same class.  It's used most frequently when comparing Hash elements.
