## Variable Scope

Previously, variable scope was used in a general way to explain the concept.  However now it's time to shine a little more light.  This whole time, we've been talking about *local variable scope*.  Now we're going to discuss how variable scoping rules apply to instance, class, and constant variables.

#### Instance Variable Scope
Instance variables are scoped at the object level.  This means they are tied to unique instantiation of an object.  This is used to track individual object state.

Because of this scope, instance variables are accessible in an object's instance methods.  Even if an instance variable is initialized outside of a instance method, it is still accessible.  However the instance variable can only reference values tied to the referenced instantiated object (and not any other instantiated object unless it's a protected instance method).

Another key difference between local variables and instance variables are their initial values.  If an uninitialized local variable is referenced, it returns a `NameError`.  If an uninitialized instance variable is referenced, it returns `nil`.

- The logic here is simple enough, local variables aren't inherently tied to anything.  Instance variables are inherently linked to instantiated objects.
  - The way I try to see this is, instantiated objects instantiate their instance variables to `nil` by default.

Class instance variables, that's a thing.  This is what occurs when an instance variable is initialized at the class level.  This isn't under the purview of this assignment, so for now it's enough just to know that these are different from instance variables.  To avoid initializing class instance variables, initialize instance variables within an instance method.
```ruby
class Person
  @name = 'dude' # class level initialization, aka class instance variable

  def get_name
    @name
  end
end

dude = Person.new
dude.get_name # nil # the instance variable uses it's default value
```

#### Class Variable Scope
Class variables are scoped at the class level.  This means they are tied to every instantiated object of its class.  Class variables aren't unique to each instantiated object, rather class variables are shared by all objects.

- Class variables can be accessed by objects through instance methods.
- Class methods can also access class variables.
- Class variables can be initialized anywhere within a class definition.

```ruby
class Person
  @@total_people = 0 # initialized at the class level

  def self.total_people
    @@total_people # accessible via class method
  end

  def initialize
    @@total_people += 1 # mutable via instance method
  end

  def total_people
    @@total_people # access via instance method
  end
end

Person.total_people # 0
Person.new
Person.new
Person.total_people # 2

dude = Person.new
dude.total_people # 3

Person.total_people # 3
```

#### Constant Variable Scope
Constant variables are referred to as constants because they're not intended to be re-assigned.  Re-assigning a constant usually doesn't raise an error, but it will prompt a warning.  Constants have lexical scope.

*Lexical scope* essentially means within the hierarchal order.
```ruby
class Animal
  GREETINGS = ['hello', 'bark', 'baaaa']
end

class Plant
  def greet
    GREETINGS.sample
  end
end

class Dog < Animal
  def greet
    GREETINGS.sample
  end
end

class Alien
  def greet
    ANIMAL::GREETINGS.sample
  end
end

puts Dog.greet # NameError
puts Dog.new.greet # NameError

```

If a constant is defined at a class level, another class cannot access this constant, unless passed through inheritance.  If an out of scope constant is referenced, a `NameError` exception.

- Constants have one other neat feature.  They can be referenced, even if they're defined outside of lexical scope, by using the *namespace resolution operator*, `::`.
