## Exceptions
[Getting Started with Ruby Exceptions](https://launchschool.medium.com/getting-started-with-ruby-exceptions-d6318975b8d1)
[Ruby API: Exception class](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.1.2/Exception.html)

#### What is an Exception?
An exception is not inherently a bad thing.  It is Ruby's way of saying the code has behaved exceptionally, or unexpectedly.  In other words, an exception is a signal of an unexpected state.  If a script is run and an exception is raised without the code handling it, the program will crash.  When this occurs, Ruby returns an exception message which explains what type of error occurred.

Ruby uses classes to handle these exceptions.  `NoMethodError`, `TypeError`, etc are actually class names.  These classes are part of a hierarchy that inherits from the `Exception` class.

#### The Exception Class Hierarchy
Here's a complete list of the `Exception` class hierarchy:
```ruby
Exception
  NoMemoryError
  ScriptError
    LoadError
    NotImplementedError
    SyntaxError
  SecurityError
  SignalException
    Interrupt
  StandardError
    ArgumentError
      UncaughtThrowError
    EncodingError
    FiberError
    IOError
      EOFError
    IndexError
      KeyError
      StopIteration
    LocalJumpError
    NameError
      NoMethodError
    RangeError
      FloatDomainError
    RegexpError
    RuntimeError
    SystemCallError
      Errno::*
    ThreadError
    TypeError
    ZeroDivisionError
  SystemExit
  SystemtackError
  fatal
```

Some of these are more common than others:

- The `Interrupt` class is used to raise an exception whenever `ctrl` + `c` is pressed to exit out of a program.
- The `SyntaxError` class is used when Ruby tries to execute code containing invalid syntax. (for example, forgetting to add the keyword `end`).
- The `SystemStackError` class is used when a stack overflow will occur, such as with infinite loops.
- The `StandardError` class, as it's name suggests, is host to a list of common error types such as `ArgumentError`, `TypeError`, `NoMethodError`, etc.

#### When Should You Handle an Exception?
There's no one size fits all approach for how to handle exceptions.  The reason is because some exceptions are relatively safe to handle and let a program continue running, while other exceptions can be quite serious and are typically better left to crash a program.

Being intentional about which exceptions are handled and how is important.  It might be best to let the exception crash the program, log the error, send an email to an admin, or display a message to the user.

Some errors, such as those from under the `StandardError` class, are typically relatively safe to handle while allowing a program to continue running.  These exceptions are often handled.

Other errors, such as `NoMemoryError`, `SyntaxError`, `LoadError`, etc., must be addressed in order for a program to run reliably.  There are other errors that *should* crash a program.  As a result, exceptions need to be intentionally and thoughtfully considered.

#### How to Handle an Exceptional State
**The `begin/rescue` Block**
The `begin/rescue` block can handle exceptions while keeping a program running.  Here's an example:
```ruby
# ... some code
begin
  # code at risk of failing
rescue TypeError
  # actions to take
end
```

If the code under `begin` raises the exception passed to `rescue`, the code under `rescue` will be executed.  Else the code under `rescue` is ignored.

If no exception is passed to `rescue` (its condition), `StandardError` is used as default.  It's important not to pass `Exception` here as all exceptions would be handled.  As mentioned earlier, this could be very dangerous.

Similar to an `if/else` statement, a `begin/rescue` block can take multiple `rescue` clauses.  This allows the block to handle different types of exceptions from the same code.  Here's an example:

```ruby
begin
  # code at risk of failing
rescue TypeError
  # actions to take
rescue NoMethodError
  # different actions to take
end
```

If the exceptions are handled with the same actions, a comma can be used instead of a separate `rescue` clause.  Here's an example:

```ruby
begin
  # code at risk of failing
rescue TypeError, NoMethodError
  # actions to take
end
```

#### Exception Objects and Built-in Methods
Because exceptions are Ruby objects, they have attributes and states.  They also have behaviors ready to help handle the exception or debug them.  Here's an example:

```ruby
rescue TypeError => e
```

This rescues any code that raises a `TypeError` exception, then stores the `TypeError` exception in the object `e`.

Here's another example:

```ruby
begin
  # code at risk of failing
rescue StandardError => e
  puts e.message
end
```

This stores the `StandardError` exception (or any of its descendants) in `e`.  Then the message associated with that exception object is output.  This is a particularly useful approach for debugging purposes.

Aside from `rescue`, there are other clauses that can be used in a `begin/rescue` block.

**`ensure`**
The `ensure` clause will always be executed.  This can be particularly useful for cleaning up code in one place.

Here's an example:

```ruby
file = open(file_name, 'w')

begin
  # do something with the file
rescue
  # handle exception
rescue
  # handle a different exception
ensure
  file.close
  # executes every time
end
```

In the example above, a file is opened, then used.  If the file is not used as expected, some exceptions are raised and handled.  Regardless, the `ensure` clause will close the file.  This is a good way to handle resource management.

It's important to note that code within `ensure` should be carefully designed.  If any code within `ensure` raises an exception, any exception raised earlier will be masked by `ensure`'s exception.  This can result in very challenging debugging.

**`retry`**
The `retry` clause is used to loop through the `begin/rescue` block.  As a result, there's a very real danger of creating an infinite loop.  This can be handled by limiting the number of cycles using a counter.

Here's an example:

```ruby
RETRY_LIMIT = 5

begin
  attempts = attempts || 0
  # do something
rescue
  attempts += 1
  retry if attempts < RETRY_LIMIT
end
```

In the above example, the `rescue` block increments over the variable initialized within the `begin` clause.  Notice that `retry` is used within `rescue`'s block.  Attempting to use `retry` anywhere other than a `rescue` block will result in a `SyntaxError`.

#### Raising Exceptions Manually
*Handling* an exception is a reaction to an exception that has already been *raised*.  One could argue that this is a reactionary approach.

There's another way to raise an exception which is more deliberate.  `Kernel#raise`.  This method manually raises exceptions in a program by choosing what Exception to raise.  If no Exception is passed to `raise`, `RuntimeError` is used by default (a subclass of `StandardError`).  It's even possible to fairly easily define the error message.

Here's an example:

```ruby
raise TypeError.new('Something went wrong!') # more formal syntax

raise TypeError, 'Something went wrong!' # alternative syntax
```

Here's an example of `raise` using a default Exception and passed into a method and `begin/rescue` block:

```ruby
def validate_age(age)
  raise('invalid age') unless (0..105).include? age
end

begin
  validate_age(age)
rescue RuntimeError => e
  puts e.message # => 'invalid age'
end
```

In the example above, on line 2 of the method definition `validate_age`, `raise` is called and takes the default exception as well as defines an error message.  `validate_age` will either return the exception object or `nil`.

On lines 5 to 9, a `begin/rescue` block is defined.  It begins with the `begin` block being evaluated, which is the expression `validate_age(age)`.  If that expression raises a `RuntimeError`, the `rescue` clause will catch the exception object and pass it into `e`.  Then `rescue`'s block is evaluated.  This results in the `Exception` method being invoked and returning `'invalid age'`.  This `String` is then passed to `puts`.

#### Raising Custom Exceptions
Custom exceptions can be created as easily as custom classes are.

Here's an example:

```ruby
class ValidateAgeError < StandardError; end
```

The important point to notice is that the custom exception is inheriting from `StandardError`.  This gives all of the built-in behaviors to the new.  Most often, `StandardError` is the ideal class for custom exceptions to inherit from.  The benefit to creating a custom exception is the same as with custom classes- they can have very descriptive names.

Here's an example of a custom Exception using a descriptive name:

```ruby
def validate_age(age)
  raise ValidateAgeError, 'invalid age' unless (0..105).include? age
end

begin
  validate_age(age)
rescue
  validate_age(age)
rescue ValidateAge => e


begin
  validate_age(age)
rescue ValidateAgeError =>
  # take action
end
```
