Polymorphism and Encapsulation

A useful tip is for custom classes to have as few public methods as possible.  This keeps things as simple as possible when using multiple classes.

#### Polymorphism
Polymorphism is the ability for multiple types of objects to access a method (behavior, action, interface, etc) of the same name.  The method may or may not have the same implementation.  The idea is that many types of objects can use the same kind of lexicon.

There are two forms of polymorphism:

Polymorphism through inheritance.

- Here methods are inherited to subclasses.
  - The subclass can use the default implementation from the superclass.
  - Another option is for the subclass to override the superclass's method implementation.
    - Overriding can be thought of as 'duck-typing', however overriding is generally treated as an aspect of inheritance.

Polymorphism through duck typing

- Duck typing is when unrelated classes respond to the same method name.
- As long as both objects accept the same method with the same number and type of arguments, the objects can be treated the same in this regard.
- *If it quacks like a duck, then we can treat it like a duck.*
- Duck typing is seen as an informal way of classifying or imbuing type to objects (classes and modules being a more formal approach).

Simply having multiple methods that share a method with the same name is not considered polymorphism.  The objects should have a similar logic to how / why a method is used.

- For example, if there are two objects, `circle` and `window_blinds`.  Both of these objects might use the method `draw`, however the logical use these objects use `draw` would be differently.  Thus, polymorphism doesn't apply here.

#### Encapsulation
Encapsulation is the idea of hiding methods and properties of an object from a user, allowing access to only what the user needs.  Method access control is one way this is handled.
